doc/src/compute_ke_atom.rst, before:

.. index:: compute ke/atom

compute ke/atom command
=======================

Syntax
""""""

.. parsed-literal::

   compute ID group-ID ke/atom

* ID, group-ID are documented in :doc:`compute <compute>` command
* ke/atom = style name of this compute command

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   compute 1 all ke/atom

Description
"""""""""""

Define a computation that calculates the per-atom translational
kinetic energy for each atom in a group.

The kinetic energy is simply 1/2 m v\^2, where m is the mass and v is
the velocity of each atom.

The value of the kinetic energy will be 0.0 for atoms not in the
specified compute group.

Output info
"""""""""""

This compute calculates a per-atom vector, which can be accessed by
any command that uses per-atom values from a compute as input.  See
the :doc:`Howto output <Howto_output>` page for an overview of
LAMMPS output options.

The per-atom vector values will be in energy :doc:`units <units>`.

Restrictions
""""""""""""
 none

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`dump custom <dump>`

Default
"""""""

none

Commit message:

Math replacements; code-block LAMMPS; clarity and parsing-friendly edits

doc/src/compute_ke_atom.rst, after:

.. index:: compute ke/atom

compute ke/atom command
=======================

Syntax
""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   compute ID group-ID ke/atom

* ID, group-ID are documented in :doc:`compute <compute>` command
* ke/atom = style name of this compute command

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   compute 1 all ke/atom

Description
"""""""""""

Define a computation that calculates the per-atom translational
kinetic energy for each atom in a group.

The kinetic energy is simply :math:`\frac12 m v^2`, where :math:`m` is the mass
and :math:`v` is the velocity of each atom.

The value of the kinetic energy will be 0.0 for atoms not in the
specified compute group.

Output info
"""""""""""

This compute calculates a per-atom vector, which can be accessed by
any command that uses per-atom values from a compute as input.  See
the :doc:`Howto output <Howto_output>` page for an overview of
LAMMPS output options.

The per-atom vector values will be in energy :doc:`units <units>`.

Restrictions
""""""""""""
 none

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`dump custom <dump>`

Default
"""""""

none
