doc/src/dihedral_zero.rst, before:

.. index:: dihedral_style zero

dihedral_style zero command
===========================

Syntax
""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   dihedral_style zero [nocoeff]

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   dihedral_style zero
   dihedral_style zero nocoeff
   dihedral_coeff *

Description
"""""""""""

Using a dihedral style of zero means dihedral forces and energies are
not computed, but the geometry of dihedral quadruplets is still
accessible to other commands.

As an example, the :doc:`compute dihedral/local <compute_dihedral_local>` command can be used to
compute the theta values for the list of quadruplets of dihedral atoms
listed in the data file read by the :doc:`read_data <read_data>`
command.  If no dihedral style is defined, this command cannot be
used.

The optional *nocoeff* flag allows to read data files with a DihedralCoeff
section for any dihedral style. Similarly, any dihedral_coeff commands
will only be checked for the dihedral type number and the rest ignored.

Note that the :doc:`dihedral_coeff <dihedral_coeff>` command must be
used for all dihedral types, though no additional values are
specified.

Restrictions
""""""""""""
 none

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

none


:doc:`dihedral_style none <dihedral_none>`

Default
"""""""

none

Commit message:

Updates documentation files to make them more consistent and some typo fixes (round 1)

doc/src/dihedral_zero.rst, after:

.. index:: dihedral_style zero

dihedral_style zero command
===========================

Syntax
""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   dihedral_style zero keyword

* zero or more keywords may be appended
* keyword = *nocoeff*

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   dihedral_style zero
   dihedral_style zero nocoeff
   dihedral_coeff *

Description
"""""""""""

Using a dihedral style of zero means dihedral forces and energies are
not computed, but the geometry of dihedral quadruplets is still
accessible to other commands.

As an example, the :doc:`compute dihedral/local <compute_dihedral_local>` command can be used to
compute the theta values for the list of quadruplets of dihedral atoms
listed in the data file read by the :doc:`read_data <read_data>`
command.  If no dihedral style is defined, this command cannot be
used.

The optional *nocoeff* flag allows to read data files with a DihedralCoeff
section for any dihedral style. Similarly, any dihedral_coeff commands
will only be checked for the dihedral type number and the rest ignored.

Note that the :doc:`dihedral_coeff <dihedral_coeff>` command must be
used for all dihedral types, though no additional values are
specified.

Restrictions
""""""""""""
 none

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

none


:doc:`dihedral_style none <dihedral_none>`

Default
"""""""

none
