doc/src/dump_vtk.rst, before:

.. index:: dump vtk

dump vtk command
================

Syntax
""""""

.. parsed-literal::

   dump ID group-ID vtk N file args

* ID = user-assigned name for the dump
* group-ID = ID of the group of atoms to be dumped
* vtk = style of dump command (other styles *atom* or *cfg* or *dcd* or *xtc* or *xyz* or *local* or *custom* are discussed on the :doc:`dump <dump>` doc page)
* N = dump every this many timesteps
* file = name of file to write dump info to
* args = same as arguments for :doc:`dump_style custom <dump>`

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   dump dmpvtk all vtk 100 dump*.myforce.vtk id type vx fx
   dump dmpvtp flow vtk 100 dump*.%.displace.vtp id type c_myD[1] c_myD[2] c_myD[3] v_ke

Description
"""""""""""

Dump a snapshot of atom quantities to one or more files every N
timesteps in a format readable by the `VTK visualization toolkit <http://www.vtk.org>`_ or other visualization tools that use it,
e.g. `ParaView <http://www.paraview.org>`_.  The timesteps on which dump
output is written can also be controlled by a variable; see the
:doc:`dump_modify every <dump_modify>` command for details.

This dump style is similar to :doc:`dump_style custom <dump>` but uses
the VTK library to write data to VTK simple legacy or XML format
depending on the filename extension specified for the dump file.  This
can be either *\*.vtk* for the legacy format or *\*.vtp* and *\*.vtu*,
respectively, for XML format; see the `VTK homepage <http://www.vtk.org/VTK/img/file-formats.pdf>`_ for a detailed
description of these formats.  Since this naming convention conflicts
with the way binary output is usually specified (see below), the
:doc:`dump_modify binary <dump_modify>` command allows setting of a
binary option for this dump style explicitly.

Only information for atoms in the specified group is dumped.  The
:doc:`dump_modify thresh and region <dump_modify>` commands can also
alter what atoms are included; see details below.

As described below, special characters ("\*", "%") in the filename
determine the kind of output.

.. warning::

   Because periodic boundary conditions are enforced only
   on timesteps when neighbor lists are rebuilt, the coordinates of an
   atom written to a dump file may be slightly outside the simulation
   box.

.. warning::

   Unless the :doc:`dump_modify sort <dump_modify>` option
   is invoked, the lines of atom information written to dump files will
   be in an indeterminate order for each snapshot.  This is even true
   when running on a single processor, if the :doc:`atom_modify sort <atom_modify>` option is on, which it is by default.  In this
   case atoms are re-ordered periodically during a simulation, due to
   spatial sorting.  It is also true when running in parallel, because
   data for a single snapshot is collected from multiple processors, each
   of which owns a subset of the atoms.

For the *vtk* style, sorting is off by default. See the
:doc:`dump_modify <dump_modify>` page for details.

----------

The dimensions of the simulation box are written to a separate file
for each snapshot (either in legacy VTK or XML format depending on the
format of the main dump file) with the suffix *_boundingBox* appended
to the given dump filename.

For an orthogonal simulation box this information is saved as a
rectilinear grid (legacy .vtk or .vtr XML format).

Triclinic simulation boxes (non-orthogonal) are saved as
hexahedrons in either legacy .vtk or .vtu XML format.

Style *vtk* allows you to specify a list of atom attributes to be
written to the dump file for each atom.  The list of possible attributes
is the same as for the :doc:`dump_style custom <dump>` command; see
its page for a listing and an explanation of each attribute.

.. note::

   Since position data is required to write VTK files the atom
   attributes "x y z" do not have to be specified explicitly; they will
   be included in the dump file regardless.  Also, in contrast to the
   *custom* style, the specified *vtk* attributes are rearranged to
   ensure correct ordering of vector components (except for computes and
   fixes - these have to be given in the right order) and duplicate
   entries are removed.

The VTK format uses a single snapshot of the system per file, thus
a wildcard "\*" must be included in the filename, as discussed below.
Otherwise the dump files will get overwritten with the new snapshot
each time.

----------

Dumps are performed on timesteps that are a multiple of N (including
timestep 0) and on the last timestep of a minimization if the
minimization converges.  Note that this means a dump will not be
performed on the initial timestep after the dump command is invoked,
if the current timestep is not a multiple of N.  This behavior can be
changed via the :doc:`dump_modify first <dump_modify>` command, which
can also be useful if the dump command is invoked after a minimization
ended on an arbitrary timestep.  N can be changed between runs by
using the :doc:`dump_modify every <dump_modify>` command.
The :doc:`dump_modify every <dump_modify>` command
also allows a variable to be used to determine the sequence of
timesteps on which dump files are written.  In this mode a dump on the
first timestep of a run will also not be written unless the
:doc:`dump_modify first <dump_modify>` command is used.

Dump filenames can contain two wildcard characters.  If a "\*"
character appears in the filename, then one file per snapshot is
written and the "\*" character is replaced with the timestep value.
For example, tmp.dump\*.vtk becomes tmp.dump0.vtk, tmp.dump10000.vtk,
tmp.dump20000.vtk, etc.  Note that the :doc:`dump_modify pad <dump_modify>`
command can be used to insure all timestep numbers are the same length
(e.g. 00010), which can make it easier to read a series of dump files
in order with some post-processing tools.

If a "%" character appears in the filename, then each of P processors
writes a portion of the dump file, and the "%" character is replaced
with the processor ID from 0 to P-1 preceded by an underscore character.
For example, tmp.dump%.vtp becomes tmp.dump_0.vtp, tmp.dump_1.vtp, ...
tmp.dump_P-1.vtp, etc.  This creates smaller files and can be a fast
mode of output on parallel machines that support parallel I/O for output.

By default, P = the number of processors meaning one file per
processor, but P can be set to a smaller value via the *nfile* or
*fileper* keywords of the :doc:`dump_modify <dump_modify>` command.
These options can be the most efficient way of writing out dump files
when running on large numbers of processors.

For the legacy VTK format "%" is ignored and P = 1, i.e., only
processor 0 does write files.

Note that using the "\*" and "%" characters together can produce a
large number of small dump files!

If *dump_modify binary* is used, the dump file (or files, if "\*" or
"%" is also used) is written in binary format.  A binary dump file
will be about the same size as a text version, but will typically
write out much faster.

----------

Restrictions
""""""""""""

The *vtk* style does not support writing of gzipped dump files.

The *vtk* dump style is part of the VTK package. It is only
enabled if LAMMPS was built with that package. See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` page for more info.

To use this dump style, you also must link to the VTK library.  See
the info in lib/vtk/README and insure the Makefile.lammps file in that
directory is appropriate for your machine.

The *vtk* dump style supports neither buffering or custom format
strings.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`dump <dump>`, :doc:`dump image <dump_image>`,
:doc:`dump_modify <dump_modify>`, :doc:`undump <undump>`

Default
"""""""

By default, files are written in ASCII format. If the file extension
is not one of .vtk, .vtp or .vtu, the legacy VTK file format is used.

Commit message:

Math replacements and cosmetic edits to documentation

doc/src/dump_vtk.rst, after:

.. index:: dump vtk

dump vtk command
================

Syntax
""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   dump ID group-ID vtk N file args

* ID = user-assigned name for the dump
* group-ID = ID of the group of atoms to be dumped
* vtk = style of dump command (other styles such as *atom* or *cfg* or *dcd* or *xtc* or *xyz* or *local* or *custom* are discussed on the :doc:`dump <dump>` doc page)
* N = dump every this many timesteps
* file = name of file to write dump info to
* args = same as arguments for :doc:`dump_style custom <dump>`

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   dump dmpvtk all vtk 100 dump*.myforce.vtk id type vx fx
   dump dmpvtp flow vtk 100 dump*.%.displace.vtp id type c_myD[1] c_myD[2] c_myD[3] v_ke

Description
"""""""""""

Dump a snapshot of atom quantities to one or more files every :math:`N`
timesteps in a format readable by the `VTK visualization toolkit <http://www.vtk.org>`_ or other visualization tools that use it,
such as `ParaView <http://www.paraview.org>`_.  The time steps on which dump
output is written can also be controlled by a variable; see the
:doc:`dump_modify every <dump_modify>` command for details.

This dump style is similar to :doc:`dump_style custom <dump>` but uses
the VTK library to write data to VTK simple legacy or XML format,
depending on the filename extension specified for the dump file.  This
can be either *\*.vtk* for the legacy format or *\*.vtp* and *\*.vtu*,
respectively, for XML format; see the
`VTK homepage <http://www.vtk.org/VTK/img/file-formats.pdf>`_ for a detailed
description of these formats.  Since this naming convention conflicts
with the way binary output is usually specified (see below), the
:doc:`dump_modify binary <dump_modify>` command allows setting of a
binary option for this dump style explicitly.

Only information for atoms in the specified group is dumped.  The
:doc:`dump_modify thresh and region <dump_modify>` commands can also
alter what atoms are included; see details below.

As described below, special characters ("\*", "%") in the filename
determine the kind of output.

.. warning::

   Because periodic boundary conditions are enforced only
   on timesteps when neighbor lists are rebuilt, the coordinates of an
   atom written to a dump file may be slightly outside the simulation
   box.

.. warning::

   Unless the :doc:`dump_modify sort <dump_modify>` option
   is invoked, the lines of atom information written to dump files will
   be in an indeterminate order for each snapshot.  This is even true
   when running on a single processor, if the :doc:`atom_modify sort <atom_modify>` option is on, which it is by default.  In this
   case atoms are re-ordered periodically during a simulation, due to
   spatial sorting.  It is also true when running in parallel, because
   data for a single snapshot is collected from multiple processors, each
   of which owns a subset of the atoms.

For the *vtk* style, sorting is off by default. See the
:doc:`dump_modify <dump_modify>` page for details.

----------

The dimensions of the simulation box are written to a separate file
for each snapshot (either in legacy VTK or XML format depending on the
format of the main dump file) with the suffix *_boundingBox* appended
to the given dump filename.

For an orthogonal simulation box this information is saved as a
rectilinear grid (legacy .vtk or .vtr XML format).

Triclinic simulation boxes (non-orthogonal) are saved as
hexahedrons in either legacy .vtk or .vtu XML format.

Style *vtk* allows you to specify a list of atom attributes to be
written to the dump file for each atom.  The list of possible attributes
is the same as for the :doc:`dump_style custom <dump>` command; see
its page for a listing and an explanation of each attribute.

.. note::

   Since position data is required to write VTK files the atom
   attributes "x y z" do not have to be specified explicitly; they will
   be included in the dump file regardless.  Also, in contrast to the
   *custom* style, the specified *vtk* attributes are rearranged to
   ensure correct ordering of vector components (except for computes and
   fixes - these have to be given in the right order) and duplicate
   entries are removed.

The VTK format uses a single snapshot of the system per file, thus
a wildcard "\*" must be included in the filename, as discussed below.
Otherwise the dump files will get overwritten with the new snapshot
each time.

----------

Dumps are performed on timesteps that are a multiple of N (including
timestep 0) and on the last timestep of a minimization if the
minimization converges.  Note that this means a dump will not be
performed on the initial timestep after the dump command is invoked,
if the current timestep is not a multiple of N.  This behavior can be
changed via the :doc:`dump_modify first <dump_modify>` command, which
can also be useful if the dump command is invoked after a minimization
ended on an arbitrary timestep.  N can be changed between runs by
using the :doc:`dump_modify every <dump_modify>` command.
The :doc:`dump_modify every <dump_modify>` command
also allows a variable to be used to determine the sequence of
timesteps on which dump files are written.  In this mode a dump on the
first timestep of a run will also not be written unless the
:doc:`dump_modify first <dump_modify>` command is used.

Dump filenames can contain two wildcard characters.  If a "\*"
character appears in the filename, then one file per snapshot is
written and the "\*" character is replaced with the timestep value.
For example, tmp.dump\*.vtk becomes tmp.dump0.vtk, tmp.dump10000.vtk,
tmp.dump20000.vtk, etc.  Note that the :doc:`dump_modify pad <dump_modify>`
command can be used to insure all timestep numbers are the same length
(e.g. 00010), which can make it easier to read a series of dump files
in order with some post-processing tools.

If a "%" character appears in the filename, then each of P processors
writes a portion of the dump file, and the "%" character is replaced
with the processor ID from 0 to P-1 preceded by an underscore character.
For example, tmp.dump%.vtp becomes tmp.dump_0.vtp, tmp.dump_1.vtp, ...
tmp.dump_P-1.vtp, etc.  This creates smaller files and can be a fast
mode of output on parallel machines that support parallel I/O for output.

By default, P = the number of processors meaning one file per
processor, but P can be set to a smaller value via the *nfile* or
*fileper* keywords of the :doc:`dump_modify <dump_modify>` command.
These options can be the most efficient way of writing out dump files
when running on large numbers of processors.

For the legacy VTK format "%" is ignored and P = 1, i.e., only
processor 0 does write files.

Note that using the "\*" and "%" characters together can produce a
large number of small dump files!

If *dump_modify binary* is used, the dump file (or files, if "\*" or
"%" is also used) is written in binary format.  A binary dump file
will be about the same size as a text version, but will typically
write out much faster.

----------

Restrictions
""""""""""""

The *vtk* style does not support writing of gzipped dump files.

The *vtk* dump style is part of the VTK package. It is only
enabled if LAMMPS was built with that package. See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` page for more info.

To use this dump style, you also must link to the VTK library.  See
the info in lib/vtk/README and insure the Makefile.lammps file in that
directory is appropriate for your machine.

The *vtk* dump style supports neither buffering or custom format
strings.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`dump <dump>`, :doc:`dump image <dump_image>`,
:doc:`dump_modify <dump_modify>`, :doc:`undump <undump>`

Default
"""""""

By default, files are written in ASCII format. If the file extension
is not one of .vtk, .vtp or .vtu, the legacy VTK file format is used.
