doc/src/fix_bond_swap.rst, before:

.. index:: fix bond/swap

fix bond/swap command
=====================

Syntax
""""""

.. parsed-literal::

   fix ID group-ID bond/swap Nevery fraction cutoff seed

* ID, group-ID are documented in :doc:`fix <fix>` command
* bond/swap = style name of this fix command
* Nevery = attempt bond swapping every this many steps
* fraction = fraction of group atoms to consider for swapping
* cutoff = distance at which swapping will be considered (distance units)
* seed = random # seed (positive integer)

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   fix 1 all bond/swap 50 0.5 1.3 598934

Description
"""""""""""

In a simulation of polymer chains this command attempts to swap a pair
of bonds, as illustrated below.  This is done via Monte Carlo rules
using the Boltzmann acceptance criterion, typically with the goal of
equilibrating the polymer system more quickly.  This fix is designed
for use with idealized bead-spring polymer chains where each polymer
is a linear chain of monomers, but LAMMPS does not check that is the
case for your system.

Here are two use cases for this fix.

The first use case is for swapping bonds on two different chains,
effectively grafting the end of one chain onto the other chain and
vice versa.  The purpose is to equilibrate the polymer chain
conformations more rapidly than dynamics alone would do it, by
enabling instantaneous large conformational changes in a dense polymer
melt.  The polymer chains should thus more rapidly converge to the
proper end-to-end distances and radii of gyration.

A schematic of the kinds of bond swaps that can occur in this use case
is shown here:

.. image:: JPG/bondswap.jpg
   :align: center

On the left, the red and blue chains have two monomers A1 and B1 close
to each other, which are currently bonded to monomers A2 and B2
respectively within their own chains.  The bond swap operation will
attempt to delete the A1-A2 and B1-B2 bonds and replace them with
A1-B2 and B1-A2 bonds.  If the swap is energetically favorable, the
two chains on the right are the result and each polymer chain has
undergone a dramatic conformational change.  This reference,
:ref:`(Sides) <Sides>` provides more details on the algorithm's
effectiveness for this use case.

The second use case is a collection of polymer chains with some
fraction of their sites identified as "sticker" sites.  Initially each
polymer chain is isolated from the others in a topological sense, and
there is an intra-chain bond between every pair of sticker sites on
the same chain.  Over time, bonds swap so that inter-molecular sticker
bonds are created.  This models a vitrification-style process whereby
the polymer chains all become interconnected.  For this use case, if
angles are defined they should not include bonds between sticker
sites.

----------

The bond swapping operation is invoked once every *Nevery* timesteps.
If any bond in the entire system is swapped, a re-build of the
neighbor lists is triggered, since a swap alters the list of which
neighbors are considered for pairwise interaction.  At each
invocation, each processor considers a random specified *fraction* of
its atoms as potential swapping monomers for this timestep.  Choosing
a small *fraction* value can reduce the likelihood of a reverse swap
occurring soon after an initial swap.

For each monomer A1, its neighbors are looped over as B1 monomers.
For each A1,B1 an additional double loop of bond partners A2 of A1,
and bond partners B2 of B1 a is performed.  For each pair of A1-A2 and
B1-B2 bonds to be eligible for swapping, the following 4 criteria must
be met:

1. All 4 monomers must be in the fix group.

2. All 4 monomers must be owned by the processor (not ghost atoms).
   This insures that another processor does not attempt to swap bonds
   involving the same atoms on the same timestep.  Note that this also
   means that bond pairs which straddle processor boundaries are not
   eligible for swapping on this step.

3. The distances between 4 pairs of atoms -- (A1,A2), (B1,B2), (A1,B2),
   (B1,A2) -- must all be less than the specified *cutoff*.

4. The molecule IDs of A1 and B1 must be the same (see below).

If an eligible B1 partner is found, the energy change due to swapping
the 2 bonds is computed.  This includes changes in pairwise, bond, and
angle energies due to the altered connectivity of the 2 chains.
Dihedral and improper interactions are not allowed to be defined when
this fix is used.

If the energy decreases due to the swap operation, the bond swap is
accepted.  If the energy increases it is accepted with probability
exp(-delta/kT) where delta is the increase in energy, k is the
Boltzmann constant, and T is the current temperature of the system.

.. note::

   IMPORTANT: Whether the swap is accepted or rejected, no other swaps
   are attempted by this processor on this timestep.  No other
   eligible 4-tuples of atoms are considered.  This means that each
   processor will perform either a single swap or none on timesteps
   this fix is invoked.

----------

The criterion for matching molecule IDs is how the first use case
described above can be simulated while conserving chain lengths.  This
is done by setting up the molecule IDs for the polymer chains in a
specific way, typically in the data file, read by the :doc:`read_data
<read_data>` command.

Consider a system of 6-mer chains.  You have 2 choices.  If the
molecule IDs for monomers on each chain are set to 1,2,3,4,5,6 then
swaps will conserve chain length.  For a particular monomer there will
be only one other monomer on another chain which is a potential swap
partner.  If the molecule IDs for monomers on each chain are set to
1,2,3,3,2,1 then swaps will conserve chain length but swaps will be
able to occur at either end of a chain.  Thus for a particular monomer
there will be 2 possible swap partners on another chain.  In this
scenario, swaps can also occur within a single chain, i.e. the two
ends of a chain swap with each other.

.. note::

   If your simulation uses molecule IDs in the usual way, where all
   monomers on a single chain are assigned the same ID (different for
   each chain), then swaps will only occur within the same chain.  If you
   assign the same molecule ID to all monomers in all chains then
   inter-chain swaps will occur, but they will not conserve chain length.
   Neither of these scenarios is probably what you want for this fix.

.. note::

   When a bond swap occurs the image flags of monomers in the new
   polymer chains can become inconsistent.  See the :doc:`dump <dump>`
   command for a discussion of image flags.  This is not an issue for
   running dynamics, but can affect calculation of some diagnostic
   quantities or the printing of unwrapped coordinates to a dump file.

For the second use case described above, the molecule IDs for all
sticker sites should be the same.

----------

This fix computes a temperature each time it is invoked for use by the
Boltzmann criterion.  To do this, the fix creates its own compute of
style *temp*, as if this command had been issued:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   compute fix-ID_temp all temp

See the :doc:`compute temp <compute_temp>` command for details.  Note
that the ID of the new compute is the fix-ID with underscore + "temp"
appended and the group for the new compute is "all", so that the
temperature of the entire system is used.

Note that this is NOT the compute used by thermodynamic output (see
the :doc:`thermo_style <thermo_style>` command) with ID =
*thermo_temp*.  This means you can change the attributes of this fix's
temperature (e.g. its degrees-of-freedom) via the :doc:`compute_modify
<compute_modify>` command or print this temperature during
thermodynamic output via the :doc:`thermo_style custom <thermo_style>`
command using the appropriate compute-ID.  It also means that changing
attributes of *thermo_temp* will have no effect on this fix.

----------

Restart, fix_modify, output, run start/stop, minimize info
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

No information about this fix is written to :doc:`binary restart files
<restart>`.  Because the state of the random number generator is not
saved in restart files, this means you cannot do "exact" restarts with
this fix, where the simulation continues on the same as if no restart
had taken place.  However, in a statistical sense, a restarted
simulation should produce the same behavior.  Also note that each
processor generates possible swaps independently of other processors.
Thus if you repeat the same simulation on a different number of
processors, the specific swaps performed will be different.

The :doc:`fix_modify <fix_modify>` *temp* option is supported by this
fix.  You can use it to assign a :doc:`compute <compute>` you have
defined to this fix which will be used to compute the temperature for
the Boltzmann criterion.

This fix computes two statistical quantities as a global 2-vector of
output, which can be accessed by various :doc:`output commands
<Howto_output>`.  The first component of the vector is the cumulative
number of swaps performed by all processors.  The second component of
the vector is the cumulative number of swaps attempted (whether
accepted or rejected).  Note that a swap "attempt" only occurs when
swap partners meeting the criteria described above are found on a
particular timestep.  The vector values calculated by this fix are
"intensive".

No parameter of this fix can be used with the *start/stop* keywords of
the :doc:`run <run>` command.  This fix is not invoked during
:doc:`energy minimization <minimize>`.

Restrictions
""""""""""""

This fix is part of the MC package.  It is only enabled if LAMMPS was
built with that package.  See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>`
doc page for more info.

The settings of the "special_bond" command must be 0,1,1 in order to
use this fix, which is typical of bead-spring chains with FENE or
harmonic bonds.  This means that pairwise interactions between bonded
atoms are turned off, but are turned on between atoms two or three
hops away along the chain backbone.

Currently, energy changes in dihedral and improper interactions due to
a bond swap are not considered.  Thus a simulation that uses this fix
cannot use a dihedral or improper potential.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`fix atom/swap <fix_atom_swap>`

Default
"""""""

none

----------

.. _Sides:

**(Sides)** Sides, Grest, Stevens, Plimpton, J Polymer Science B, 42,
199-208 (2004).

Commit message:

add note to doc page about sticker site model

doc/src/fix_bond_swap.rst, after:

.. index:: fix bond/swap

fix bond/swap command
=====================

Syntax
""""""

.. parsed-literal::

   fix ID group-ID bond/swap Nevery fraction cutoff seed

* ID, group-ID are documented in :doc:`fix <fix>` command
* bond/swap = style name of this fix command
* Nevery = attempt bond swapping every this many steps
* fraction = fraction of group atoms to consider for swapping
* cutoff = distance at which swapping will be considered (distance units)
* seed = random # seed (positive integer)

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   fix 1 all bond/swap 50 0.5 1.3 598934

Description
"""""""""""

In a simulation of polymer chains this command attempts to swap a pair
of bonds, as illustrated below.  This is done via Monte Carlo rules
using the Boltzmann acceptance criterion, typically with the goal of
equilibrating the polymer system more quickly.  This fix is designed
for use with idealized bead-spring polymer chains where each polymer
is a linear chain of monomers, but LAMMPS does not check that is the
case for your system.

Here are two use cases for this fix.

The first use case is for swapping bonds on two different chains,
effectively grafting the end of one chain onto the other chain and
vice versa.  The purpose is to equilibrate the polymer chain
conformations more rapidly than dynamics alone would do it, by
enabling instantaneous large conformational changes in a dense polymer
melt.  The polymer chains should thus more rapidly converge to the
proper end-to-end distances and radii of gyration.

A schematic of the kinds of bond swaps that can occur in this use case
is shown here:

.. image:: JPG/bondswap.jpg
   :align: center

On the left, the red and blue chains have two monomers A1 and B1 close
to each other, which are currently bonded to monomers A2 and B2
respectively within their own chains.  The bond swap operation will
attempt to delete the A1-A2 and B1-B2 bonds and replace them with
A1-B2 and B1-A2 bonds.  If the swap is energetically favorable, the
two chains on the right are the result and each polymer chain has
undergone a dramatic conformational change.  This reference,
:ref:`(Sides) <Sides>` provides more details on the algorithm's
effectiveness for this use case.

The second use case is a collection of polymer chains with some
fraction of their sites identified as "sticker" sites.  Initially each
polymer chain is isolated from the others in a topological sense, and
there is an intra-chain bond between every pair of sticker sites on
the same chain.  Over time, bonds swap so that inter-molecular sticker
bonds are created.  This models a vitrification-style process whereby
the polymer chains all become interconnected.  For this use case, if
angles are defined they should not include bonds between sticker
sites.

.. note::

   For the sticker site model, you should set the newton flag for
   bonds to "off", via the :doc:`newton on off<newton>` command ("on"
   is the default for the 2nd argument).  This is to ensure
   appropriate randomness in bond selection because the I,J bond will
   be stored by both atom I and atom J.  LAMMPS cannot check for this,
   because it is not aware that a sticker site model is being used.

----------

The bond swapping operation is invoked once every *Nevery* timesteps.
If any bond in the entire system is swapped, a re-build of the
neighbor lists is triggered, since a swap alters the list of which
neighbors are considered for pairwise interaction.  At each
invocation, each processor considers a random specified *fraction* of
its atoms as potential swapping monomers for this timestep.  Choosing
a small *fraction* value can reduce the likelihood of a reverse swap
occurring soon after an initial swap.

For each monomer A1, its neighbors are looped over as B1 monomers.
For each A1,B1 an additional double loop of bond partners A2 of A1,
and bond partners B2 of B1 a is performed.  For each pair of A1-A2 and
B1-B2 bonds to be eligible for swapping, the following 4 criteria must
be met:

1. All 4 monomers must be in the fix group.

2. All 4 monomers must be owned by the processor (not ghost atoms).
   This insures that another processor does not attempt to swap bonds
   involving the same atoms on the same timestep.  Note that this also
   means that bond pairs which straddle processor boundaries are not
   eligible for swapping on this step.

3. The distances between 4 pairs of atoms -- (A1,A2), (B1,B2), (A1,B2),
   (B1,A2) -- must all be less than the specified *cutoff*.

4. The molecule IDs of A1 and B1 must be the same (see below).

If an eligible B1 partner is found, the energy change due to swapping
the 2 bonds is computed.  This includes changes in pairwise, bond, and
angle energies due to the altered connectivity of the 2 chains.
Dihedral and improper interactions are not allowed to be defined when
this fix is used.

If the energy decreases due to the swap operation, the bond swap is
accepted.  If the energy increases it is accepted with probability
exp(-delta/kT) where delta is the increase in energy, k is the
Boltzmann constant, and T is the current temperature of the system.

.. note::

   Whether the swap is accepted or rejected, no other swaps are
   attempted by this processor on this timestep.  No other eligible
   4-tuples of atoms are considered.  This means that each processor
   will perform either a single swap or none on timesteps this fix is
   invoked.

----------

The criterion for matching molecule IDs is how the first use case
described above can be simulated while conserving chain lengths.  This
is done by setting up the molecule IDs for the polymer chains in a
specific way, typically in the data file, read by the :doc:`read_data
<read_data>` command.

Consider a system of 6-mer chains.  You have 2 choices.  If the
molecule IDs for monomers on each chain are set to 1,2,3,4,5,6 then
swaps will conserve chain length.  For a particular monomer there will
be only one other monomer on another chain which is a potential swap
partner.  If the molecule IDs for monomers on each chain are set to
1,2,3,3,2,1 then swaps will conserve chain length but swaps will be
able to occur at either end of a chain.  Thus for a particular monomer
there will be 2 possible swap partners on another chain.  In this
scenario, swaps can also occur within a single chain, i.e. the two
ends of a chain swap with each other.

.. note::

   If your simulation uses molecule IDs in the usual way, where all
   monomers on a single chain are assigned the same ID (different for
   each chain), then swaps will only occur within the same chain.  If you
   assign the same molecule ID to all monomers in all chains then
   inter-chain swaps will occur, but they will not conserve chain length.
   Neither of these scenarios is probably what you want for this fix.

.. note::

   When a bond swap occurs the image flags of monomers in the new
   polymer chains can become inconsistent.  See the :doc:`dump <dump>`
   command for a discussion of image flags.  This is not an issue for
   running dynamics, but can affect calculation of some diagnostic
   quantities or the printing of unwrapped coordinates to a dump file.

For the second use case described above, the molecule IDs for all
sticker sites should be the same.

----------

This fix computes a temperature each time it is invoked for use by the
Boltzmann criterion.  To do this, the fix creates its own compute of
style *temp*, as if this command had been issued:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   compute fix-ID_temp all temp

See the :doc:`compute temp <compute_temp>` command for details.  Note
that the ID of the new compute is the fix-ID with underscore + "temp"
appended and the group for the new compute is "all", so that the
temperature of the entire system is used.

Note that this is NOT the compute used by thermodynamic output (see
the :doc:`thermo_style <thermo_style>` command) with ID =
*thermo_temp*.  This means you can change the attributes of this fix's
temperature (e.g. its degrees-of-freedom) via the :doc:`compute_modify
<compute_modify>` command or print this temperature during
thermodynamic output via the :doc:`thermo_style custom <thermo_style>`
command using the appropriate compute-ID.  It also means that changing
attributes of *thermo_temp* will have no effect on this fix.

----------

Restart, fix_modify, output, run start/stop, minimize info
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

No information about this fix is written to :doc:`binary restart files
<restart>`.  Because the state of the random number generator is not
saved in restart files, this means you cannot do "exact" restarts with
this fix, where the simulation continues on the same as if no restart
had taken place.  However, in a statistical sense, a restarted
simulation should produce the same behavior.  Also note that each
processor generates possible swaps independently of other processors.
Thus if you repeat the same simulation on a different number of
processors, the specific swaps performed will be different.

The :doc:`fix_modify <fix_modify>` *temp* option is supported by this
fix.  You can use it to assign a :doc:`compute <compute>` you have
defined to this fix which will be used to compute the temperature for
the Boltzmann criterion.

This fix computes two statistical quantities as a global 2-vector of
output, which can be accessed by various :doc:`output commands
<Howto_output>`.  The first component of the vector is the cumulative
number of swaps performed by all processors.  The second component of
the vector is the cumulative number of swaps attempted (whether
accepted or rejected).  Note that a swap "attempt" only occurs when
swap partners meeting the criteria described above are found on a
particular timestep.  The vector values calculated by this fix are
"intensive".

No parameter of this fix can be used with the *start/stop* keywords of
the :doc:`run <run>` command.  This fix is not invoked during
:doc:`energy minimization <minimize>`.

Restrictions
""""""""""""

This fix is part of the MC package.  It is only enabled if LAMMPS was
built with that package.  See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>`
doc page for more info.

The settings of the "special_bond" command must be 0,1,1 in order to
use this fix, which is typical of bead-spring chains with FENE or
harmonic bonds.  This means that pairwise interactions between bonded
atoms are turned off, but are turned on between atoms two or three
hops away along the chain backbone.

Currently, energy changes in dihedral and improper interactions due to
a bond swap are not considered.  Thus a simulation that uses this fix
cannot use a dihedral or improper potential.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`fix atom/swap <fix_atom_swap>`

Default
"""""""

none

----------

.. _Sides:

**(Sides)** Sides, Grest, Stevens, Plimpton, J Polymer Science B, 42,
199-208 (2004).
