doc/src/fix_nve.rst, before:

.. index:: fix nve
.. index:: fix nve/gpu
.. index:: fix nve/intel
.. index:: fix nve/kk
.. index:: fix nve/omp

fix nve command
===============

Accelerator Variants: *nve/gpu*, *nve/intel*, *nve/kk*, *nve/omp*

Syntax
""""""

.. parsed-literal::

   fix ID group-ID nve

* ID, group-ID are documented in :doc:`fix <fix>` command
* nve = style name of this fix command

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   fix 1 all nve

Description
"""""""""""

Perform plain time integration to update position and velocity for
atoms in the group each timestep.  This creates a system trajectory
consistent with the microcanonical ensemble (NVE) provided there
are (full) periodic boundary conditions and no other "manipulations"
of the system (e.g. fixes that modify forces or velocities).

----------

.. include:: accel_styles.rst

----------

Restart, fix_modify, output, run start/stop, minimize info
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

No information about this fix is written to :doc:`binary restart files <restart>`.  None of the :doc:`fix_modify <fix_modify>` options
are relevant to this fix.  No global or per-atom quantities are stored
by this fix for access by various :doc:`output commands <Howto_output>`.
No parameter of this fix can be used with the *start/stop* keywords of
the :doc:`run <run>` command.  This fix is not invoked during :doc:`energy minimization <minimize>`.

Restrictions
""""""""""""
 none

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`fix nvt <fix_nh>`, :doc:`fix npt <fix_nh>`

Default
"""""""

none

Commit message:

Explcitly state that fix nve uses velocity-Verlet integrator

doc/src/fix_nve.rst, after:

.. index:: fix nve
.. index:: fix nve/gpu
.. index:: fix nve/intel
.. index:: fix nve/kk
.. index:: fix nve/omp

fix nve command
===============

Accelerator Variants: *nve/gpu*, *nve/intel*, *nve/kk*, *nve/omp*

Syntax
""""""

.. parsed-literal::

   fix ID group-ID nve

* ID, group-ID are documented in :doc:`fix <fix>` command
* nve = style name of this fix command

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   fix 1 all nve

Description
"""""""""""

Perform plain time integration to update position and velocity for
atoms in the group each timestep.  This creates a system trajectory
consistent with the microcanonical ensemble (NVE) provided there
are (full) periodic boundary conditions and no other "manipulations"
of the system (e.g. fixes that modify forces or velocities).

By default, this fix invokes the velocity form of the
Störmer-Verlet time integration algorithm (velocity-Verlet). Other schemes
can be invoked using the :doc:`run_style <run_style>` command.

----------

.. Include:: accel_styles.rst

----------

Restart, fix_modify, output, run start/stop, minimize info
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

No information about this fix is written to :doc:`binary restart files <restart>`.  None of the :doc:`fix_modify <fix_modify>` options
are relevant to this fix.  No global or per-atom quantities are stored
by this fix for access by various :doc:`output commands <Howto_output>`.
No parameter of this fix can be used with the *start/stop* keywords of
the :doc:`run <run>` command.  This fix is not invoked during :doc:`energy minimization <minimize>`.

Restrictions
""""""""""""
 none

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`fix nvt <fix_nh>`, :doc:`fix npt <fix_nh>`, :doc:`run_style <run_style>`

Default
"""""""

none
