doc/src/fix_cmap.rst, before:

.. index:: fix cmap

fix cmap command
================

Syntax
""""""

.. parsed-literal::

   fix ID group-ID cmap filename

* ID, group-ID are documented in :doc:`fix <fix>` command
* cmap = style name of this fix command
* filename = force-field file with CMAP coefficients

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   fix            myCMAP all cmap ../potentials/cmap36.data
   read_data      proteinX.data fix myCMAP crossterm CMAP
   fix_modify     myCMAP energy yes

Description
"""""""""""

This command enables CMAP cross-terms to be added to simulations which
use the CHARMM force field.  These are relevant for any CHARMM model
of a peptide or protein sequences that is 3 or more amino-acid
residues long; see :ref:`(Buck) <Buck>` and :ref:`(Brooks) <Brooks2>`
for details, including the analytic energy expressions for CMAP
interactions.  The CMAP cross-terms add additional potential energy
contributions to pairs of overlapping phi-psi dihedrals of
amino-acids, which are important to properly represent their
conformational behavior.

The examples/cmap directory has a sample input script and data file
for a small peptide, that illustrates use of the fix cmap command.

As in the example above, this fix should be used before reading a data
file that contains a listing of CMAP interactions.  The *filename*
specified should contain the CMAP parameters for a particular version
of the CHARMM force field.  Two such files are including in the
lammps/potentials directory: charmm22.cmap and charmm36.cmap.

The data file read by the "read_data" must contain the topology of all
the CMAP interactions, similar to the topology data for bonds, angles,
dihedrals, etc.  Specially it should have a line like this
in its header section:

.. parsed-literal::

   N crossterms

where N is the number of CMAP cross-terms.  It should also have a section
in the body of the data file like this with N lines:

.. parsed-literal::

   CMAP

          1       1       8      10      12      18      20
          2       5      18      20      22      25      27
          [...]
          N       3     314     315     317      318    330

The first column is an index from 1 to N to enumerate the CMAP terms;
it is ignored by LAMMPS.  The second column is the "type" of the
interaction; it is an index into the CMAP force field file.  The
remaining 5 columns are the atom IDs of the atoms in the two 4-atom
dihedrals that overlap to create the CMAP 5-body interaction.  Note
that the "crossterm" and "CMAP" keywords for the header and body
sections match those specified in the read_data command following the
data file name; see the :doc:`read_data <read_data>` doc page for
more details.

A data file containing CMAP cross-terms can be generated from a PDB
file using the charmm2lammps.pl script in the tools/ch2lmp directory
of the LAMMPS distribution.  The script must be invoked with the
optional "-cmap" flag to do this; see the tools/ch2lmp/README file for
more information.

The potential energy associated with CMAP interactions can be output
as described below.  It can also be included in the total potential
energy of the system, as output by the
:doc:`thermo_style <thermo_style>` command, if the :doc:`fix_modify energy <fix_modify>` command is used, as in the example above.  See
the note below about how to include the CMAP energy when performing an
:doc:`energy minimization <minimize>`.

----------

Restart, fix_modify, output, run start/stop, minimize info
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This fix writes the list of CMAP cross-terms to :doc:`binary restart
files <restart>`.  See the :doc:`read_restart <read_restart>` command
for info on how to re-specify a fix in an input script that reads a
restart file, so that the operation of the fix continues in an
uninterrupted fashion.

The :doc:`fix_modify <fix_modify>` *energy* option is supported by
this fix to add the potential energy of the CMAP interactions to both
the global potential energy and peratom potential energies of the
system as part of :doc:`thermodynamic output <thermo_style>` or
output by the :doc:`compute pe/atom <compute_pe_atom>` command.  The
default setting for this fix is :doc:`fix_modify energy yes
<fix_modify>`.

The :doc:`fix_modify <fix_modify>` *virial* option is supported by
this fix to add the contribution due to the CMAP interactions to both
the global pressure and per-atom stress of the system via the
:doc:`compute pressure <compute_pressure>` and :doc:`compute
stress/atom <compute_stress_atom>` commands.  The former can be
accessed by :doc:`thermodynamic output <thermo_style>`.  The default
setting for this fix is :doc:`fix_modify virial yes <fix_modify>`.

This fix computes a global scalar which can be accessed by various
:doc:`output commands <Howto_output>`.  The scalar is the potential
energy discussed above.  The scalar value calculated by this fix is
"extensive".

No parameter of this fix can be used with the *start/stop* keywords of
the :doc:`run <run>` command.

The forces due to this fix are imposed during an energy minimization,
invoked by the :doc:`minimize <minimize>` command.

The :doc:`fix_modify <fix_modify>` *respa* option is supported by this
fix. This allows to set at which level of the :doc:`r-RESPA
<run_style>` integrator the fix is adding its forces. Default is the
outermost level.

.. note::

   If you want the potential energy associated with the CMAP terms
   forces to be included in the total potential energy of the system
   (the quantity being minimized), you MUST not disable the
   :doc:`fix_modify <fix_modify>` *energy* option for this fix.

Restrictions
""""""""""""

To function as expected this fix command must be issued *before* a
:doc:`read_data <read_data>` command but *after* a
:doc:`read_restart <read_restart>` command.

This fix can only be used if LAMMPS was built with the MOLECULE
package.  See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` doc page for more
info.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`fix_modify <fix_modify>`, :doc:`read_data <read_data>`

Default
"""""""

none

----------

.. _Buck:

**(Buck)** Buck, Bouguet-Bonnet, Pastor, MacKerell Jr., Biophys J, 90, L36
(2006).

.. _Brooks2:

**(Brooks)** Brooks, Brooks, MacKerell Jr., J Comput Chem, 30, 1545 (2009).

Commit message:

adding selm information to the documentation

doc/src/fix_cmap.rst, after:

.. index:: fix cmap

fix cmap command
================

Syntax
""""""

.. parsed-literal::

   fix ID group-ID cmap filename

* ID, group-ID are documented in :doc:`fix <fix>` command
* cmap = style name of this fix command
* filename = force-field file with CMAP coefficients

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   fix            myCMAP all cmap ../potentials/cmap36.data
   read_data      proteinX.data fix myCMAP crossterm CMAP
   fix_modify     myCMAP energy yes

Description
"""""""""""

This command enables CMAP cross-terms to be added to simulations which
use the CHARMM force field.  These are relevant for any CHARMM model
of a peptide or protein sequences that is 3 or more amino-acid
residues long; see :ref:`(Buck) <Buck>` and :ref:`(Brooks) <Brooks2>` for details,
including the analytic energy expressions for CMAP interactions.  The
CMAP cross-terms add additional potential energy contributions to pairs
of overlapping phi-psi dihedrals of amino-acids, which are important
to properly represent their conformational behavior.

The examples/cmap directory has a sample input script and data file
for a small peptide, that illustrates use of the fix cmap command.

As in the example above, this fix should be used before reading a data
file that contains a listing of CMAP interactions.  The *filename*
specified should contain the CMAP parameters for a particular version
of the CHARMM force field.  Two such files are including in the
lammps/potentials directory: charmm22.cmap and charmm36.cmap.

The data file read by the "read_data" must contain the topology of all
the CMAP interactions, similar to the topology data for bonds, angles,
dihedrals, etc.  Specially it should have a line like this
in its header section:

.. parsed-literal::

   N crossterms

where N is the number of CMAP cross-terms.  It should also have a section
in the body of the data file like this with N lines:

.. parsed-literal::

   CMAP

          1       1       8      10      12      18      20
          2       5      18      20      22      25      27
          [...]
          N       3     314     315     317      318    330

The first column is an index from 1 to N to enumerate the CMAP terms;
it is ignored by LAMMPS.  The second column is the "type" of the
interaction; it is an index into the CMAP force field file.  The
remaining 5 columns are the atom IDs of the atoms in the two 4-atom
dihedrals that overlap to create the CMAP 5-body interaction.  Note
that the "crossterm" and "CMAP" keywords for the header and body
sections match those specified in the read_data command following the
data file name; see the :doc:`read_data <read_data>` doc page for
more details.

A data file containing CMAP cross-terms can be generated from a PDB
file using the charmm2lammps.pl script in the tools/ch2lmp directory
of the LAMMPS distribution.  The script must be invoked with the
optional "-cmap" flag to do this; see the tools/ch2lmp/README file for
more information.

The potential energy associated with CMAP interactions can be output
as described below.  It can also be included in the total potential
energy of the system, as output by the
:doc:`thermo_style <thermo_style>` command, if the :doc:`fix_modify energy <fix_modify>` command is used, as in the example above.  See
the note below about how to include the CMAP energy when performing an
:doc:`energy minimization <minimize>`.

----------

Restart, fix_modify, output, run start/stop, minimize info
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This fix writes the list of CMAP cross-terms to :doc:`binary restart files <restart>`.  See the :doc:`read_restart <read_restart>` command
for info on how to re-specify a fix in an input script that reads a
restart file, so that the operation of the fix continues in an
uninterrupted fashion.

The :doc:`fix_modify <fix_modify>` *energy* option is supported by this
fix to add the potential "energy" of the CMAP interactions system's
potential energy as part of :doc:`thermodynamic output <thermo_style>`.

The :doc:`fix_modify <fix_modify>` *virial* option is supported by this
fix to add the contribution due to the interaction between atoms to
the system's virial as part of :doc:`thermodynamic output <thermo_style>`.
The default is *virial yes*

This fix computes a global scalar which can be accessed by various
:doc:`output commands <Howto_output>`.  The scalar is the potential
energy discussed above.  The scalar value calculated by this fix is
"extensive".

No parameter of this fix can be used with the *start/stop* keywords of
the :doc:`run <run>` command.

The forces due to this fix are imposed during an energy minimization,
invoked by the :doc:`minimize <minimize>` command.

.. note::

   If you want the potential energy associated with the CMAP terms
   forces to be included in the total potential energy of the system (the
   quantity being minimized), you MUST enable the
   :doc:`fix_modify <fix_modify>` *energy* option for this fix.

Restrictions
""""""""""""

To function as expected this fix command must be issued *before* a
:doc:`read_data <read_data>` command but *after* a
:doc:`read_restart <read_restart>` command.

This fix can only be used if LAMMPS was built with the MOLECULE
package.  See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` doc page for more
info.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`fix_modify <fix_modify>`, :doc:`read_data <read_data>`

Default
"""""""

none

----------

.. _Buck:

**(Buck)** Buck, Bouguet-Bonnet, Pastor, MacKerell Jr., Biophys J, 90, L36
(2006).

.. _Brooks2:

**(Brooks)** Brooks, Brooks, MacKerell Jr., J Comput Chem, 30, 1545 (2009).
