.. index:: fix print

fix print command
=================

Syntax
""""""

.. parsed-literal::

   fix ID group-ID print N string keyword value ...

* ID, group-ID are documented in :doc:`fix <fix>` command
* print = style name of this fix command
* N = print every N steps; N can be a variable (see below)
* string = text string to print with optional variable names
* zero or more keyword/value pairs may be appended
* keyword = *file* or *append* or *screen* or *title*

  .. parsed-literal::

       *file* value = filename
       *append* value = filename
       *screen* value = *yes* or *no*
       *title* value = string
         string =  text to print as 1st line of output file

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   fix extra all print 100 "Coords of marker atom = $x $y $z"
   fix extra all print 100 "Coords of marker atom = $x $y $z" file coord.txt

Description
"""""""""""

Print a text string every N steps during a simulation run.  This can
be used for diagnostic purposes or as a debugging tool to monitor some
quantity during a run.  The text string must be a single argument, so
it should be enclosed in single or double quotes if it is more than
one word.  If it contains variables it must be enclosed in double
quotes to ensure they are not evaluated when the input script line is
read, but will instead be evaluated each time the string is printed.

.. note::

   As discussed on the :doc:`Commands parse <Commands_parse>` doc
   page, the text string can use "immediate" variables, specified as
   $(formula) with parenthesis, where the numeric formula has the same
   syntax as equal-style variables described on the :doc:`variable
   <variable>` doc page.  This is a convenient way to evaluate a
   formula immediately without using the variable command to define a
   named variable and then use that variable in the text string.  The
   formula can include a trailing colon and format string which
   determines the precision with which the numeric value is output.
   This is also explained on the :doc:`Commands parse
   <Commands_parse>` doc page.

Instead of a numeric value, N can be specified as an :doc:`equal-style
variable <variable>`, which should be specified as v_name, where name
is the variable name.  In this case, the variable is evaluated at the
beginning of a run to determine the **next** timestep at which the
string will be written out.  On that timestep, the variable will be
evaluated again to determine the next timestep, etc.  Thus the
variable should return timestep values.  See the stagger() and
logfreq() and stride() math functions for :doc:`equal-style variables
<variable>`, as examples of useful functions to use in this
context. For example, the following commands will print output at
timesteps 10,20,30,100,200,300,1000,2000,etc:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   variable        s equal logfreq(10,3,10)
   fix extra all print v_s "Coords of marker atom = $x $y $z"

The specified group-ID is ignored by this fix.

See the :doc:`variable <variable>` command for a description of
*equal* style variables which are the most useful ones to use with the
fix print command, since they are evaluated afresh each timestep that
the fix print line is output.  Equal-style variables calculate
formulas involving mathematical operations, atom properties, group
properties, thermodynamic properties, global values calculated by a
:doc:`compute <compute>` or :doc:`fix <fix>`, or references to other
:doc:`variables <variable>`.

If the *file* or *append* keyword is used, a filename is specified to
which the output generated by this fix will be written.  If *file* is
used, then the filename is overwritten if it already exists.  If
*append* is used, then the filename is appended to if it already
exists, or created if it does not exist.

If the *screen* keyword is used, output by this fix to the screen and
logfile can be turned on or off as desired.

The *title* keyword allow specification of the string that will be
printed as the first line of the output file, assuming the *file*
keyword was used.  By default, the title line is as follows:

.. parsed-literal::

   # Fix print output for fix ID

where ID is replaced with the fix-ID.

Restart, fix_modify, output, run start/stop, minimize info
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

No information about this fix is written to :doc:`binary restart files
<restart>`.  None of the :doc:`fix_modify <fix_modify>` options are
relevant to this fix.  No global or per-atom quantities are stored by
this fix for access by various :doc:`output commands <Howto_output>`.
No parameter of this fix can be used with the *start/stop* keywords of
the :doc:`run <run>` command.  This fix is not invoked during
:doc:`energy minimization <minimize>`.

Restrictions
""""""""""""
 none

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`variable <variable>`, :doc:`print <print>`

Default
"""""""

The option defaults are no file output, screen = yes, and title string
as described above.
