doc/src/fix_shake.rst, before:

.. index:: fix shake
.. index:: fix shake/kk
.. index:: fix rattle

fix shake command
=================

Accelerator Variants: *shake/kk*

fix rattle command
==================

Syntax
""""""

.. parsed-literal::

   fix ID group-ID style tol iter N constraint values ... keyword value ...

* ID, group-ID are documented in :doc:`fix <fix>` command
* style = shake or rattle = style name of this fix command
* tol = accuracy tolerance of SHAKE solution
* iter = max # of iterations in each SHAKE solution
* N = print SHAKE statistics every this many timesteps (0 = never)
* one or more constraint/value pairs are appended
* constraint = *b* or *a* or *t* or *m*

  .. parsed-literal::

       *b* values = one or more bond types
       *a* values = one or more angle types
       *t* values = one or more atom types
       *m* value = one or more mass values

* zero or more keyword/value pairs may be appended
* keyword = *mol* or *kbond*

  .. parsed-literal::

       *mol* value = template-ID
         template-ID = ID of molecule template specified in a separate :doc:`molecule <molecule>` command
       *kbond* value = force constant
         force constant = force constant used to apply a restraint force when used during minimization

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   fix 1 sub shake 0.0001 20 10 b 4 19 a 3 5 2
   fix 1 sub shake 0.0001 20 10 t 5 6 m 1.0 a 31
   fix 1 sub shake 0.0001 20 10 t 5 6 m 1.0 a 31 mol myMol
   fix 1 sub rattle 0.0001 20 10 t 5 6 m 1.0 a 31
   fix 1 sub rattle 0.0001 20 10 t 5 6 m 1.0 a 31 mol myMol

Description
"""""""""""

Apply bond and angle constraints to specified bonds and angles in the
simulation by either the SHAKE or RATTLE algorithms.  This typically
enables a longer timestep.

**SHAKE vs RATTLE:**

The SHAKE algorithm was invented for schemes such as standard Verlet
timestepping, where only the coordinates are integrated and the
velocities are approximated as finite differences to the trajectories
(:ref:`Ryckaert et al. (1977) <Ryckaert>`).  If the velocities are
integrated explicitly, as with velocity Verlet which is what LAMMPS
uses as an integration method, a second set of constraining forces is
required in order to eliminate velocity components along the bonds
(:ref:`Andersen (1983) <Andersen3>`).

In order to formulate individual constraints for SHAKE and RATTLE,
focus on a single molecule whose bonds are constrained.  Let Ri and Vi
be the position and velocity of atom *i* at time *n*, for
*i* =1,...,\ *N*, where *N* is the number of sites of our reference
molecule. The distance vector between sites *i* and *j* is given by

.. math::

   \mathbf r^{n+1}_{ij} = \mathbf r^n_j - \mathbf r^n_i

The constraints can then be formulated as

.. math::

   \mathbf r^{n+1}_{ij} \cdot \mathbf r^{n+1}_{ij} &= d^2_{ij} \quad \text{and} \\
   \mathbf v^{n+1}_{ij} \cdot \mathbf r^{n+1}_{ij} &= 0

The SHAKE algorithm satisfies the first condition, i.e. the sites at
time *n+1* will have the desired separations Dij immediately after the
coordinates are integrated.  If we also enforce the second condition,
the velocity components along the bonds will vanish.  RATTLE satisfies
both conditions.  As implemented in LAMMPS, fix rattle uses fix shake
for satisfying the coordinate constraints. Therefore the settings and
optional keywords are the same for both fixes, and all the information
below about SHAKE is also relevant for RATTLE.

**SHAKE:**

Each timestep the specified bonds and angles are reset to their
equilibrium lengths and angular values via the SHAKE algorithm
(:ref:`Ryckaert et al. (1977) <Ryckaert>`).  This is done by applying an
additional constraint force so that the new positions preserve the
desired atom separations.  The equations for the additional force are
solved via an iterative method that typically converges to an accurate
solution in a few iterations.  The desired tolerance (e.g. 1.0e-4 = 1
part in 10000) and maximum # of iterations are specified as arguments.
Setting the N argument will print statistics to the screen and log
file about regarding the lengths of bonds and angles that are being
constrained.  Small delta values mean SHAKE is doing a good job.

In LAMMPS, only small clusters of atoms can be constrained.  This is
so the constraint calculation for a cluster can be performed by a
single processor, to enable good parallel performance.  A cluster is
defined as a central atom connected to others in the cluster by
constrained bonds.  LAMMPS allows for the following kinds of clusters
to be constrained: one central atom bonded to 1 or 2 or 3 atoms, or
one central atom bonded to 2 others and the angle between the 3 atoms
also constrained.  This means water molecules or CH2 or CH3 groups may
be constrained, but not all the C-C backbone bonds of a long polymer
chain.

The *b* constraint lists bond types that will be constrained.  The *t*
constraint lists atom types.  All bonds connected to an atom of the
specified type will be constrained.  The *m* constraint lists atom
masses.  All bonds connected to atoms of the specified masses will be
constrained (within a fudge factor of MASSDELTA specified in
fix_shake.cpp).  The *a* constraint lists angle types.  If both bonds
in the angle are constrained then the angle will also be constrained
if its type is in the list.

For all constraints, a particular bond is only constrained if both
atoms in the bond are in the group specified with the SHAKE fix.

The degrees-of-freedom removed by SHAKE bonds and angles are accounted
for in temperature and pressure computations.  Similarly, the SHAKE
contribution to the pressure of the system (virial) is also accounted
for.

.. note::

   This command works by using the current forces on atoms to
   calculate an additional constraint force which when added will leave
   the atoms in positions that satisfy the SHAKE constraints (e.g. bond
   length) after the next time integration step.  If you define fixes
   (e.g. :doc:`fix efield <fix_efield>`) that add additional force to the
   atoms after fix shake operates, then this fix will not take them into
   account and the time integration will typically not satisfy the SHAKE
   constraints.  The solution for this is to make sure that fix shake is
   defined in your input script after any other fixes which add or change
   forces (to atoms that fix shake operates on).

----------

The *mol* keyword should be used when other commands, such as :doc:`fix
deposit <fix_deposit>` or :doc:`fix pour <fix_pour>`, add molecules
on-the-fly during a simulation, and you wish to constrain the new
molecules via SHAKE.  You specify a *template-ID* previously defined
using the :doc:`molecule <molecule>` command, which reads a file that
defines the molecule.  You must use the same *template-ID* that the
command adding molecules uses.  The coordinates, atom types, special
bond restrictions, and SHAKE info can be specified in the molecule file.
See the :doc:`molecule <molecule>` command for details.  The only
settings required to be in this file (by this command) are the SHAKE
info of atoms in the molecule.

The *kbond* keyword allows to set the restraint force constant when
fix shake or fix rattle are used during minimization. In that case
the constraint algorithms are **not** applied and restraint
forces are used instead to help maintaining the geometries.

----------

.. include:: accel_styles.rst

----------

**RATTLE:**

The velocity constraints lead to a linear system of equations which
can be solved analytically.  The implementation of the algorithm in
LAMMPS closely follows (:ref:`Andersen (1983) <Andersen3>`).

.. note::

   The fix rattle command modifies forces and velocities and thus
   should be defined after all other integration fixes in your input
   script.  If you define other fixes that modify velocities or forces
   after fix rattle operates, then fix rattle will not take them into
   account and the overall time integration will typically not satisfy
   the RATTLE constraints.  You can check whether the constraints work
   correctly by setting the value of RATTLE_DEBUG in src/fix_rattle.cpp
   to 1 and recompiling LAMMPS.

----------

Restart, fix_modify, output, run start/stop, minimize info
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

No information about these fixes is written to :doc:`binary restart
files <restart>`.

The :doc:`fix_modify <fix_modify>` *virial* option is supported by
these fixes to add the contribution due to the added forces on atoms
to both the global pressure and per-atom stress of the system via the
:doc:`compute pressure <compute_pressure>` and :doc:`compute
stress/atom <compute_stress_atom>` commands.  The former can be
accessed by :doc:`thermodynamic output <thermo_style>`.  The default
setting for this fix is :doc:`fix_modify virial yes <fix_modify>`.

No global or per-atom quantities are stored by these fixes for access
by various :doc:`output commands <Howto_output>`.  No parameter of
these fixes can be used with the *start/stop* keywords of the
:doc:`run <run>` command.

When used during minimization, the SHAKE or RATTLE algorithms are **not**
applied.  Strong restraint forces are applied instead.

Restrictions
""""""""""""

These fixes are part of the RIGID package.  They are only enabled if
LAMMPS was built with that package.  See the :doc:`Build package
<Build_package>` page for more info.

For computational efficiency, there can only be one shake or rattle
fix defined in a simulation.

If you use a tolerance that is too large or a max-iteration count that
is too small, the constraints will not be enforced very strongly,
which can lead to poor energy conservation.  You can test for this in
your system by running a constant NVE simulation with a particular set
of SHAKE parameters and monitoring the energy versus time.

SHAKE or RATTLE should not be used to constrain an angle at 180
degrees (e.g. linear CO2 molecule).  This causes numeric difficulties.
You can use :doc:`fix rigid or fix rigid/small <fix_rigid>` instead to
make a linear molecule rigid.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

`fix rigid <fix_rigid>`, `fix ehex <fix_ehex>`,
`fix nve/manifold/rattle <fix_nve_manifold_rattle>`


Default
"""""""

kbond = 1.0e6

----------

.. _Ryckaert:

**(Ryckaert)** J.-P. Ryckaert, G. Ciccotti and H. J. C. Berendsen,
J of Comp Phys, 23, 327-341 (1977).

.. _Andersen3:

**(Andersen)** H. Andersen, J of Comp Phys, 52, 24-34 (1983).

Commit message:

compute energy due to restraint forces during minimization. output stats.

doc/src/fix_shake.rst, after:

.. index:: fix shake
.. index:: fix shake/kk
.. index:: fix rattle

fix shake command
=================

Accelerator Variants: *shake/kk*

fix rattle command
==================

Syntax
""""""

.. parsed-literal::

   fix ID group-ID style tol iter N constraint values ... keyword value ...

* ID, group-ID are documented in :doc:`fix <fix>` command
* style = shake or rattle = style name of this fix command
* tol = accuracy tolerance of SHAKE solution
* iter = max # of iterations in each SHAKE solution
* N = print SHAKE statistics every this many timesteps (0 = never)
* one or more constraint/value pairs are appended
* constraint = *b* or *a* or *t* or *m*

  .. parsed-literal::

       *b* values = one or more bond types
       *a* values = one or more angle types
       *t* values = one or more atom types
       *m* value = one or more mass values

* zero or more keyword/value pairs may be appended
* keyword = *mol* or *kbond*

  .. parsed-literal::

       *mol* value = template-ID
         template-ID = ID of molecule template specified in a separate :doc:`molecule <molecule>` command
       *kbond* value = force constant
         force constant = force constant used to apply a restraint force when used during minimization

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   fix 1 sub shake 0.0001 20 10 b 4 19 a 3 5 2
   fix 1 sub shake 0.0001 20 10 t 5 6 m 1.0 a 31
   fix 1 sub shake 0.0001 20 10 t 5 6 m 1.0 a 31 mol myMol
   fix 1 sub rattle 0.0001 20 10 t 5 6 m 1.0 a 31
   fix 1 sub rattle 0.0001 20 10 t 5 6 m 1.0 a 31 mol myMol

Description
"""""""""""

Apply bond and angle constraints to specified bonds and angles in the
simulation by either the SHAKE or RATTLE algorithms.  This typically
enables a longer timestep.  This SHAKE or RATTLE algorithms can *only*
be applied during molecular dynamics runs.  When this fix is used during
a minimization, the constraints are replaced by strong harmonic restraints.

**SHAKE vs RATTLE:**

The SHAKE algorithm was invented for schemes such as standard Verlet
timestepping, where only the coordinates are integrated and the
velocities are approximated as finite differences to the trajectories
(:ref:`Ryckaert et al. (1977) <Ryckaert>`).  If the velocities are
integrated explicitly, as with velocity Verlet which is what LAMMPS
uses as an integration method, a second set of constraining forces is
required in order to eliminate velocity components along the bonds
(:ref:`Andersen (1983) <Andersen3>`).

In order to formulate individual constraints for SHAKE and RATTLE,
focus on a single molecule whose bonds are constrained.  Let Ri and Vi
be the position and velocity of atom *i* at time *n*, for
*i* =1,...,\ *N*, where *N* is the number of sites of our reference
molecule. The distance vector between sites *i* and *j* is given by

.. math::

   \mathbf r^{n+1}_{ij} = \mathbf r^n_j - \mathbf r^n_i

The constraints can then be formulated as

.. math::

   \mathbf r^{n+1}_{ij} \cdot \mathbf r^{n+1}_{ij} &= d^2_{ij} \quad \text{and} \\
   \mathbf v^{n+1}_{ij} \cdot \mathbf r^{n+1}_{ij} &= 0

The SHAKE algorithm satisfies the first condition, i.e. the sites at
time *n+1* will have the desired separations Dij immediately after the
coordinates are integrated.  If we also enforce the second condition,
the velocity components along the bonds will vanish.  RATTLE satisfies
both conditions.  As implemented in LAMMPS, fix rattle uses fix shake
for satisfying the coordinate constraints. Therefore the settings and
optional keywords are the same for both fixes, and all the information
below about SHAKE is also relevant for RATTLE.

**SHAKE:**

Each timestep the specified bonds and angles are reset to their
equilibrium lengths and angular values via the SHAKE algorithm
(:ref:`Ryckaert et al. (1977) <Ryckaert>`).  This is done by applying an
additional constraint force so that the new positions preserve the
desired atom separations.  The equations for the additional force are
solved via an iterative method that typically converges to an accurate
solution in a few iterations.  The desired tolerance (e.g. 1.0e-4 = 1
part in 10000) and maximum # of iterations are specified as arguments.
Setting the N argument will print statistics to the screen and log
file about regarding the lengths of bonds and angles that are being
constrained.  Small delta values mean SHAKE is doing a good job.

In LAMMPS, only small clusters of atoms can be constrained.  This is
so the constraint calculation for a cluster can be performed by a
single processor, to enable good parallel performance.  A cluster is
defined as a central atom connected to others in the cluster by
constrained bonds.  LAMMPS allows for the following kinds of clusters
to be constrained: one central atom bonded to 1 or 2 or 3 atoms, or
one central atom bonded to 2 others and the angle between the 3 atoms
also constrained.  This means water molecules or CH2 or CH3 groups may
be constrained, but not all the C-C backbone bonds of a long polymer
chain.

The *b* constraint lists bond types that will be constrained.  The *t*
constraint lists atom types.  All bonds connected to an atom of the
specified type will be constrained.  The *m* constraint lists atom
masses.  All bonds connected to atoms of the specified masses will be
constrained (within a fudge factor of MASSDELTA specified in
fix_shake.cpp).  The *a* constraint lists angle types.  If both bonds
in the angle are constrained then the angle will also be constrained
if its type is in the list.

For all constraints, a particular bond is only constrained if both
atoms in the bond are in the group specified with the SHAKE fix.

The degrees-of-freedom removed by SHAKE bonds and angles are accounted
for in temperature and pressure computations.  Similarly, the SHAKE
contribution to the pressure of the system (virial) is also accounted
for.

.. note::

   This command works by using the current forces on atoms to
   calculate an additional constraint force which when added will leave
   the atoms in positions that satisfy the SHAKE constraints (e.g. bond
   length) after the next time integration step.  If you define fixes
   (e.g. :doc:`fix efield <fix_efield>`) that add additional force to the
   atoms after fix shake operates, then this fix will not take them into
   account and the time integration will typically not satisfy the SHAKE
   constraints.  The solution for this is to make sure that fix shake is
   defined in your input script after any other fixes which add or change
   forces (to atoms that fix shake operates on).

----------

The *mol* keyword should be used when other commands, such as :doc:`fix
deposit <fix_deposit>` or :doc:`fix pour <fix_pour>`, add molecules
on-the-fly during a simulation, and you wish to constrain the new
molecules via SHAKE.  You specify a *template-ID* previously defined
using the :doc:`molecule <molecule>` command, which reads a file that
defines the molecule.  You must use the same *template-ID* that the
command adding molecules uses.  The coordinates, atom types, special
bond restrictions, and SHAKE info can be specified in the molecule file.
See the :doc:`molecule <molecule>` command for details.  The only
settings required to be in this file (by this command) are the SHAKE
info of atoms in the molecule.

The *kbond* keyword allows to set the restraint force constant when fix
shake or fix rattle are used during minimization. In that case the
constraint algorithms are *not* applied and restraint forces are used
instead to help maintaining the geometries.  How well the geometries
are maintained and how quickly a minimization will converge depends on
the magnitude of the force constant (kbond).  If it is chosen too large
the minimization may converge slowly.  The default is 1.0e6*k_B.

----------

.. include:: accel_styles.rst

----------

**RATTLE:**

The velocity constraints lead to a linear system of equations which
can be solved analytically.  The implementation of the algorithm in
LAMMPS closely follows (:ref:`Andersen (1983) <Andersen3>`).

.. note::

   The fix rattle command modifies forces and velocities and thus
   should be defined after all other integration fixes in your input
   script.  If you define other fixes that modify velocities or forces
   after fix rattle operates, then fix rattle will not take them into
   account and the overall time integration will typically not satisfy
   the RATTLE constraints.  You can check whether the constraints work
   correctly by setting the value of RATTLE_DEBUG in src/fix_rattle.cpp
   to 1 and recompiling LAMMPS.

----------

Restart, fix_modify, output, run start/stop, minimize info
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

No information about these fixes is written to :doc:`binary restart
files <restart>`.

When used during minimization, the SHAKE or RATTLE algorithms are **not**
applied.  Strong restraint forces are applied instead.

The :doc:`fix_modify <fix_modify>` *virial* option is supported by
these fixes to add the contribution due to the added forces on atoms
to both the global pressure and per-atom stress of the system via the
:doc:`compute pressure <compute_pressure>` and :doc:`compute
stress/atom <compute_stress_atom>` commands.  The former can be
accessed by :doc:`thermodynamic output <thermo_style>`.  The default
setting for this fix is :doc:`fix_modify virial yes <fix_modify>`.
During minimization, the virial contribution is *NOT* available.

No global or per-atom quantities are stored by these fixes for access by
various :doc:`output commands <Howto_output>` during a run.  During
minimization, this fix computes a global scalar which is the energy of
the restraint forces applied insteat of the constraints.  No parameter
of these fixes can be used with the *start/stop* keywords of the
:doc:`run <run>` command.


Restrictions
""""""""""""

These fixes are part of the RIGID package.  They are only enabled if
LAMMPS was built with that package.  See the :doc:`Build package
<Build_package>` page for more info.

For computational efficiency, there can only be one shake or rattle
fix defined in a simulation.

If you use a tolerance that is too large or a max-iteration count that
is too small, the constraints will not be enforced very strongly,
which can lead to poor energy conservation.  You can test for this in
your system by running a constant NVE simulation with a particular set
of SHAKE parameters and monitoring the energy versus time.

SHAKE or RATTLE should not be used to constrain an angle at 180
degrees (e.g. linear CO2 molecule).  This causes numeric difficulties.
You can use :doc:`fix rigid or fix rigid/small <fix_rigid>` instead to
make a linear molecule rigid.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

`fix rigid <fix_rigid>`, `fix ehex <fix_ehex>`,
`fix nve/manifold/rattle <fix_nve_manifold_rattle>`


Default
"""""""

kbond = 1.0e9*k_B

----------

.. _Ryckaert:

**(Ryckaert)** J.-P. Ryckaert, G. Ciccotti and H. J. C. Berendsen,
J of Comp Phys, 23, 327-341 (1977).

.. _Andersen3:

**(Andersen)** H. Andersen, J of Comp Phys, 52, 24-34 (1983).
