doc/src/Howto_grid.rst, before:

Distributed grids
=================

LAMMPS has internal capabilities to create uniformly spaced grids
which overlay the simulation domain.  For 2d and 3d simulations these
are 2d and 3d grids respectively.  Conceptually a grid can be thought
of as a collection of grid cells, each of which has an associated grid
point.  Internally, the grid point can either be a corner point of the
grid cell, or at its center.  Each grid cell (or point) stores one or
more values (data).

The grid points and data they store are distributed across processors.
Each processor owns the grid points (and their data) that lie within
the spatial sub-domain of the processor.  If needed for its
computations, it may also store ghost grid points with data.

These grids can overlay orthogonal or triclinic simulation boxes; see
the :doc:`Howto triclinic <Howto_triclinic>` doc page for an
explanation of the latter.  For a triclinic box, the grid cells
conform to the shape of the simulation domain, e.g. parallelograms
instead of rectangles in 2d.

If the box size or shape changes during a simulation, the grid changes
with it, so that it always overlays the entire simulation domain.  For
non-periodic dimensions, the grid size in that dimension matches the
box size, i.e. as set by the :doc:`boundary <boundary>` command for
fixed or shrink-wrapped boundaries.

If load-balancing is invoked by the :doc:`balance <balance>` or
:doc:`fix balance <fix_balance>` commands, then the sub-domain owned by
a processor will change which would also change which grid points they
own.  Some of the commands listed below support that operation; others
do not.  Eventually we plan to have all commands which define and
store per-grid data support load-balancing.

.. note::

   For developers, distributed grids are implemented within the code
   via two classes: Grid2d and Grid3d.  These partition the grid
   across processors and have methods which allow forward and reverse
   communication of ghost grid data.  If you write a new compute or
   fix which needs a distributed grid, these are the classes to look
   at.  A new pair style could use a distributed grid by having a fix
   define it.

----------

These are the commands which currently define or use distributed
grids:

* :doc:`fix ave/grid <fix_ave_grid>` - time average per-atom or per-grid values
* :doc:`fix ttm/grid <fix_ttm>` - store electron temperature on grid
* :doc:`compute property/grid <compute_property_grid>` - generate grid IDs and coords
* :doc:`dump grid <dump>` - output per-grid values
* :doc:`kspace_style pppm <kspace_style>` (and variants) - FFT grids
* :doc:`kspace_style msm <kspace_style>` (and variants) - MSM grids

The grids used by the :doc:`kspace_style <kspace_style>` can not be
referenced by an input script.  However the grids and data created and
used by the other commands can be.

A compute or fix command may create one or more grids (of different
sizes).  Each grid can store one or more data fields.  A data field
can be a single value per grid point (per-grid vector) or multiple
values per grid point (per-grid array).  See the :doc:`Howto output
<Howto_output>` doc page for an explanation of how per-grid data can
be generated by some commands and used by others.

A command accesses grid data from a compute or fix with the following
syntax:

* c_ID:gname:dname
* c_ID:gname:dname[I]
* f_ID:gname:dname
* f_ID:gname:dname[I]

The prefix "c\_" or "f\_" refers to the ID of the compute or fix; gname is
the name of the grid, which is assigned by the compute or fix; dname is
the name of the data field, which is also assigned by the compute or
fix.

If the data field is a per-grid vector (one value per grid point),
then no brackets are used to access the values.  If the data field is
a per-grid array (multiple values per grid point), then brackets are
used to specify the column I of the array.  I ranges from 1 to Ncol
inclusive, where Ncol is the number of columns in the array and is
defined by the compute or fix.

Currently, there are no per-grid variables implemented in LAMMPS.  We
may add this feature at some point.

Commit message:

update docs for new image features

doc/src/Howto_grid.rst, after:

Distributed grids
=================

LAMMPS has internal capabilities to create uniformly spaced grids
which overlay the simulation domain.  For 2d and 3d simulations these
are 2d and 3d grids respectively.  Conceptually a grid can be thought
of as a collection of grid cells, each of which has an associated grid
point.  Internally, the grid point is typically the center point of
the grid cell, though that is a coding option when using grids.  Each
grid cell stores one or more values (data).

The grid points and data they store are distributed across processors.
Each processor owns the grid cells (and their data) whose grid points
lie within the spatial sub-domain of the processor.  If needed for its
computations, it may also store ghost grid cells with their data.

These grids can overlay orthogonal or triclinic simulation boxes; see
the :doc:`Howto triclinic <Howto_triclinic>` doc page for an
explanation of the latter.  For a triclinic box, the grid cells
conform to the shape of the simulation domain, e.g. parallelograms
instead of rectangles in 2d.

If the box size or shape changes during a simulation, the grid changes
with it, so that it always overlays the entire simulation domain.  For
non-periodic dimensions, the grid size in that dimension matches the
box size, i.e. as set by the :doc:`boundary <boundary>` command for
fixed or shrink-wrapped boundaries.

If load-balancing is invoked by the :doc:`balance <balance>` or
:doc:`fix balance <fix_balance>` commands, then the sub-domain owned
by a processor will change which may also change which grid points
they own.

Post-processing and visualization of per-grid data can be enabled by
the :doc:`dump grid <dump>`, :doc:`dump grid/vtk <dump>`, and
:doc:`dump image <dump_image>` commands, the latter by using its
optional *grid* keyword.  The `OVITO visualization tool
<https://www.ovito.org>`_ also plans (as of Nov 2022) to add support
for visualizing per-grid data (along with atoms) using the :doc:`dump
grid <dump>` output format.

.. note::

   For developers, distributed grids are implemented within the code
   via two classes: Grid2d and Grid3d.  These partition the grid
   across processors and have methods which allow forward and reverse
   communication of ghost grid data as well as load balancing.  If you
   write a new compute or fix which needs a distributed grid, these
   are the classes to look at.  A new pair style could use a
   distributed grid by having a fix define it.  We plan (as of
   Nov 2022) to add a section in the :doc:`Developer <Developer>`
   section of the manual with a detailed description of how to use
   these classes.
        
----------

These are the commands which currently define or use distributed
grids:

* :doc:`fix ttm/grid <fix_ttm>` - store electron temperature on grid
* :doc:`fix ave/grid <fix_ave_grid>` - time average per-atom or per-grid values
* :doc:`compute property/grid <compute_property_grid>` - generate grid IDs and coords
* :doc:`dump grid <dump>` - output per-grid values in LAMMPS format
* :doc:`dump grid/vtk <dump>` - output per-grid values in VTK format
* :doc:`dump image grid <dump_image>` - include colored grid in output images
* :doc:`kspace_style pppm <kspace_style>` (and variants) - FFT grids
* :doc:`kspace_style msm <kspace_style>` (and variants) - MSM grids

The grids used by the :doc:`kspace_style <kspace_style>` can not be
referenced by an input script.  However the grids and data created and
used by the other commands can be.

A compute or fix command may create one or more grids (of different
sizes).  Each grid can store one or more data fields.  A data field
can be a single value per grid point (per-grid vector) or multiple
values per grid point (per-grid array).  See the :doc:`Howto output
<Howto_output>` doc page for an explanation of how per-grid data can
be generated by some commands and used by others.

A command accesses grid data from a compute or fix with the following
syntax:

* c_ID:gname:dname
* c_ID:gname:dname[I]
* f_ID:gname:dname
* f_ID:gname:dname[I]

The prefix "c\_" or "f\_" refers to the ID of the compute or fix; gname is
the name of the grid, which is assigned by the compute or fix; dname is
the name of the data field, which is also assigned by the compute or
fix.

If the data field is a per-grid vector (one value per grid point),
then no brackets are used to access the values.  If the data field is
a per-grid array (multiple values per grid point), then brackets are
used to specify the column I of the array.  I ranges from 1 to Ncol
inclusive, where Ncol is the number of columns in the array and is
defined by the compute or fix.

Currently, there are no per-grid variables implemented in LAMMPS.  We
may add this feature at some point.
