doc/src/Howto_bpm.rst, before:

Bonded particle models
===============

The BPM package implements bonded particle models which can be used to
simulate mesoscale solids.  Solids are constructed as a collection of

particles which each represent a coarse-grained region of space much
larger than the atomistic scale. Particles within a solid region are
then connected by a network of bonds to provide solid elasticity.

Unlike traditional bonds in molecular dynamics, the equilibrium bond
length can vary between bonds. Bonds store the reference state.  This
includes setting the equilibrium length equal to the initial distance
between the two particles but can also include data on the bond
orientation for rotational models. This produces a stress free initial
state. Furthermore, bonds are allowed to break under large strains
producing fracture. The examples/bpm directory has sample input scripts
for simulations of the fragmentation of an impacted plate and the
pouring of extended, elastic bodies.

----------

Bonds can be created using a :doc:`read data <read_data>` or
:doc:`create bond <create_bond>` command. Alternatively, a
:doc:`molecule <molecule>` template with bonds can be used with
:doc:`fix deposit <fix_deposit>` or :doc:`fix pour <fix_pour>` to
create solid grains.

In this implementation, bonds store their reference state when they are
first computed in the setup of the first simulation run. Data is then
preserved across run commands and is written to :doc:`binary restart
files <restart>` such that restarting the system will not reset the
reference state of a bond. Bonds that are created midway into a run,
such as those created by pouring grains using :doc:`fix pour
<fix_pour>`, are initialized on that timestep.

As bonds can be broken between neighbor list builds, the
:doc:`special_bonds <special_bonds>` command works differently for BPM
bond styles. There are two possible settings which determine how pair
interactions work between bonded particles.  First, one can turn off
all pair interactions between bonded particles.  Unlike :doc:`bond
quartic <bond_quartic>`, this is not done by subtracting pair forces
during the bond computation but rather by dynamically updating the
special bond list. This is the default behavior of BPM bond styles and
is done by updating the 1-2 special bond list as bonds break.  To do
this, LAMMPS requires :doc:`newton <newton>` bond off such that all
processors containing an atom know when a bond breaks. Additionally,
one must do either (A) or (B).

(A)

Use the following special bond settings

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   special_bonds lj 0 1 1 coul 1 1 1

These settings accomplish two goals. First, they turn off 1-3 and 1-4
special bond lists, which are not currently supported for BPMs. As
BPMs often have dense bond networks, generating 1-3 and 1-4 special
bond lists is expensive.  By setting the lj weight for 1-2 bonds to
zero, this turns off pairwise interactions.  Even though there are no
charges in BPM models, setting a nonzero coul weight for 1-2 bonds
ensures all bonded neighbors are still included in the neighbor list
in case bonds break between neighbor list builds.

(B)

Alternatively, one can simply overlay pair interactions such that all
bonded particles also feel pair interactions. This can be accomplished
by using the *overlay/pair* keyword present in all bpm bond styles and
by using the following special bond settings

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   special_bonds lj/coul 1 1 1

See the :doc:`Howto <Howto_broken_bonds>` page on broken bonds for
more information.

----------

Currently there are two types of bonds included in the BPM
package. The first bond style, :doc:`bond bpm/spring
<bond_bpm_spring>`, only applies pairwise, central body forces. Point
particles must have :doc:`bond atom style <atom_style>` and may be
thought of as nodes in a spring network. Alternatively, the second
bond style, :doc:`bond bpm/rotational <bond_bpm_rotational>`, resolves
tangential forces and torques arising with the shearing, bending, and
twisting of the bond due to rotation or displacement of particles.
Particles are similar to those used in the :doc:`granular package
<Howto_granular>`, :doc:`atom style sphere <atom_style>`. However,
they must also track the current orientation of particles and
therefore use a derived :doc:`atom style sphere/bpm <atom_style>`.
This also requires a unique integrator :doc:`fix nve/sphere/bpm
<fix_nve_sphere_bpm>` which numerically integrates orientation similar
to :doc:`fix nve/asphere <fix_nve_asphere>`.

To monitor the fracture of bonds in the system, all BPM bond styles
can be associated with an instance of :doc:`fix store/local
<fix_store_local>` to record all instances of bond breakage for
output. Additionally, one can use :doc:`compute nbond/atom
<compute_nbond_atom>` to tally the current number of bonds per atom.

In addition to bond styles, a new pair style :doc:`pair bpm/spring
<pair_bpm_spring>` was added to accompany the bpm/spring bond
style. This pair style is simply a hookean repulsion with similar
velocity damping as its sister bond style.

----------

While LAMMPS has many untilites to create and delete bonds, the
following are currently compatible with BPM bond styles:

* :doc:`create_bonds <create_bonds>`
* :doc:`delete_bonds <delete_bonds>`
* :doc:`fix bond/create <fix_bond_create>`
* :doc:`fix bond/break <fix_bond_break>`
* :doc:`fix bond/swap <fix_bond_swap>`

Note :doc:`bond_create <bond_create>` requires certain special_bonds settings.
To subtract pair interactions, one will need to switch between different
special_bonds settings in the input script. An example is found in
examples/bpm/impact.

Commit message:

Moving store/local to an internal fix

doc/src/Howto_bpm.rst, after:

Bonded particle models
===============

The BPM package implements bonded particle models which can be used to
simulate mesoscale solids.  Solids are constructed as a collection of

particles which each represent a coarse-grained region of space much
larger than the atomistic scale. Particles within a solid region are
then connected by a network of bonds to provide solid elasticity.

Unlike traditional bonds in molecular dynamics, the equilibrium bond
length can vary between bonds. Bonds store the reference state.  This
includes setting the equilibrium length equal to the initial distance
between the two particles but can also include data on the bond
orientation for rotational models. This produces a stress free initial
state. Furthermore, bonds are allowed to break under large strains
producing fracture. The examples/bpm directory has sample input scripts
for simulations of the fragmentation of an impacted plate and the
pouring of extended, elastic bodies.

----------

Bonds can be created using a :doc:`read data <read_data>` or
:doc:`create bond <create_bond>` command. Alternatively, a
:doc:`molecule <molecule>` template with bonds can be used with
:doc:`fix deposit <fix_deposit>` or :doc:`fix pour <fix_pour>` to
create solid grains.

In this implementation, bonds store their reference state when they are
first computed in the setup of the first simulation run. Data is then
preserved across run commands and is written to :doc:`binary restart
files <restart>` such that restarting the system will not reset the
reference state of a bond. Bonds that are created midway into a run,
such as those created by pouring grains using :doc:`fix pour
<fix_pour>`, are initialized on that timestep.

As bonds can be broken between neighbor list builds, the
:doc:`special_bonds <special_bonds>` command works differently for BPM
bond styles. There are two possible settings which determine how pair
interactions work between bonded particles.  First, one can turn off
all pair interactions between bonded particles.  Unlike :doc:`bond
quartic <bond_quartic>`, this is not done by subtracting pair forces
during the bond computation but rather by dynamically updating the
special bond list. This is the default behavior of BPM bond styles and
is done by updating the 1-2 special bond list as bonds break.  To do
this, LAMMPS requires :doc:`newton <newton>` bond off such that all
processors containing an atom know when a bond breaks. Additionally,
one must do either (A) or (B).

(A)

Use the following special bond settings

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   special_bonds lj 0 1 1 coul 1 1 1

These settings accomplish two goals. First, they turn off 1-3 and 1-4
special bond lists, which are not currently supported for BPMs. As
BPMs often have dense bond networks, generating 1-3 and 1-4 special
bond lists is expensive.  By setting the lj weight for 1-2 bonds to
zero, this turns off pairwise interactions.  Even though there are no
charges in BPM models, setting a nonzero coul weight for 1-2 bonds
ensures all bonded neighbors are still included in the neighbor list
in case bonds break between neighbor list builds.

(B)

Alternatively, one can simply overlay pair interactions such that all
bonded particles also feel pair interactions. This can be accomplished
by using the *overlay/pair* keyword present in all bpm bond styles and
by using the following special bond settings

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   special_bonds lj/coul 1 1 1

See the :doc:`Howto <Howto_broken_bonds>` page on broken bonds for
more information.

----------

Currently there are two types of bonds included in the BPM
package. The first bond style, :doc:`bond bpm/spring
<bond_bpm_spring>`, only applies pairwise, central body forces. Point
particles must have :doc:`bond atom style <atom_style>` and may be
thought of as nodes in a spring network. Alternatively, the second
bond style, :doc:`bond bpm/rotational <bond_bpm_rotational>`, resolves
tangential forces and torques arising with the shearing, bending, and
twisting of the bond due to rotation or displacement of particles.
Particles are similar to those used in the :doc:`granular package
<Howto_granular>`, :doc:`atom style sphere <atom_style>`. However,
they must also track the current orientation of particles and
therefore use a derived :doc:`atom style sphere/bpm <atom_style>`.
This also requires a unique integrator :doc:`fix nve/sphere/bpm
<fix_nve_sphere_bpm>` which numerically integrates orientation similar
to :doc:`fix nve/asphere <fix_nve_asphere>`.

To monitor the fracture of bonds in the system, all BPM bond styles
have the ability to record instances of bond breakage to output using
the :doc:`dump local <dump_local>` command. Additionally, one can use
:doc:`compute nbond/atom <compute_nbond_atom>` to tally the current
number of bonds per atom.

In addition to bond styles, a new pair style :doc:`pair bpm/spring
<pair_bpm_spring>` was added to accompany the bpm/spring bond
style. This pair style is simply a hookean repulsion with similar
velocity damping as its sister bond style.

----------

While LAMMPS has many untilites to create and delete bonds, the
following are currently compatible with BPM bond styles:

* :doc:`create_bonds <create_bonds>`
* :doc:`delete_bonds <delete_bonds>`
* :doc:`fix bond/create <fix_bond_create>`
* :doc:`fix bond/break <fix_bond_break>`
* :doc:`fix bond/swap <fix_bond_swap>`

Note :doc:`bond_create <bond_create>` requires certain special_bonds settings.
To subtract pair interactions, one will need to switch between different
special_bonds settings in the input script. An example is found in
examples/bpm/impact.
