doc/src/improper_distharm.rst, before:

.. index:: improper\_style distharm

improper\_style distharm command
================================

Syntax
""""""

improper\_style distharm

Examples
""""""""


.. parsed-literal::

   improper_style distharm
   improper_coeff 1 25.0 0.5

Description
"""""""""""

The *distharm* improper style uses the potential

.. math::

  E = K (d - d_0)^2


where d is the oriented distance between the central atom and the plane formed
by the other three atoms.  If the 4 atoms in an improper quadruplet
(listed in the data file read by the :doc:`read_data <read_data>`
command) are ordered I,J,K,L then the L-atom is assumed to be the
central atom. Note that this is different from the convention used
in the improper\_style distance. The distance :math:`d` is oriented and can take
on negative values. This may lead to unwanted behavior if :math:`d_0` is not equal to zero.

The following coefficients must be defined for each improper type via
the improper\_coeff command as in the example above, or in the data
file or restart files read by the read\_data or read\_restart commands:

* :math:`K` (energy/distance\^2)
* :math:`d_0` (distance)


----------


Restrictions
""""""""""""


This improper style can only be used if LAMMPS was built with the
USER-YAFF package.  See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` doc
page for more info.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`improper_coeff <improper_coeff>`

**Default:** none

Commit message:

First batch of index cleanup and code-blocks

doc/src/improper_distharm.rst, after:

.. index:: improper_style distharm

improper_style distharm command
===============================

Syntax
""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   improper_style distharm

Examples
""""""""


.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   improper_style distharm
   improper_coeff 1 25.0 0.5

Description
"""""""""""

The *distharm* improper style uses the potential

.. math::

   E = K (d - d_0)^2


where :math:`d` is the oriented distance between the central atom and the plane formed
by the other three atoms.  If the 4 atoms in an improper quadruplet
(listed in the data file read by the :doc:`read_data <read_data>`
command) are ordered I,J,K,L then the L-atom is assumed to be the
central atom. Note that this is different from the convention used
in the improper\_style distance. The distance :math:`d` is oriented and can take
on negative values. This may lead to unwanted behavior if :math:`d_0` is not equal to zero.

The following coefficients must be defined for each improper type via
the improper\_coeff command as in the example above, or in the data
file or restart files read by the read\_data or read\_restart commands:

* :math:`K` (energy/distance\^2)
* :math:`d_0` (distance)


----------


Restrictions
""""""""""""


This improper style can only be used if LAMMPS was built with the
USER-YAFF package.  See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` doc
page for more info.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`improper_coeff <improper_coeff>`

**Default:** none
