doc/src/Install.rst, before:

Install LAMMPS
==============

You can download LAMMPS as an executable or as source code.

With source code, you also have to :doc:`build LAMMPS <Build>`.  But you
have more flexibility as to what features to include or exclude in the
build.  If you plan to :doc:`modify or extend LAMMPS <Modify>`, then you
need the source code.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   Install_linux
   Install_mac
   Install_windows
   Install_conda

   Install_tarball
   Install_git

These are the files and sub-directories in the LAMMPS distribution:

+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| README     | Short description of the LAMMPS package   |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| LICENSE    | GNU General Public License (GPL)          |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| SECURITY.md| Security Policy for the LAMMPS package    |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| bench      | benchmark problems                        |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| cmake      | CMake build files                         |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| doc        | documentation                             |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| examples   | simple test problems                      |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| fortran    | Fortran wrapper for LAMMPS                |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| lib        | additional provided or external libraries |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| potentials | interatomic potential files               |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| python     | Python wrappers for LAMMPS                |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| src        | source files                              |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| tools      | pre- and post-processing tools            |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| unittest   | sources and inputs for testing LAMMPS     |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+

You will have all of these if you download source.  You will only have
some of them if you download executables, as explained on the pages
listed above.

Commit message:

clarify whom to contact with questions about pre-built binaries. update ubuntu info

doc/src/Install.rst, after:

Install LAMMPS
==============

You can download LAMMPS as an executable or as source code.

When downloading the LAMMPS source code, you also have to :doc:`build
LAMMPS <Build>`.  But you have more flexibility as to what features to
include or exclude in the build.  When you download and install
pre-compiled LAMMPS executables, you are limited to install which
version of LAMMPS is available and which features are included of these
builds.  If you plan to :doc:`modify or extend LAMMPS <Modify>`, then
you **must** build LAMMPS from the source code.

.. note::

   If you have questions about the pre-compiled LAMMPS executables, you
   need to contact the people preparing those executables.  The LAMMPS
   developers have no control over their choices of how they configure
   and build their packages and when they update them.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   Install_linux
   Install_mac
   Install_windows
   Install_conda

   Install_tarball
   Install_git

These are the files and sub-directories in the LAMMPS distribution:

+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| README     | Short description of the LAMMPS package   |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| LICENSE    | GNU General Public License (GPL)          |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| SECURITY.md| Security Policy for the LAMMPS package    |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| bench      | benchmark problems                        |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| cmake      | CMake build files                         |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| doc        | documentation                             |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| examples   | simple test problems                      |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| fortran    | Fortran wrapper for LAMMPS                |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| lib        | additional provided or external libraries |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| potentials | interatomic potential files               |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| python     | Python wrappers for LAMMPS                |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| src        | source files                              |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| tools      | pre- and post-processing tools            |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+
| unittest   | sources and inputs for testing LAMMPS     |
+------------+-------------------------------------------+

You will have all of these if you download source.  You will only have
some of them if you download executables, as explained on the pages
listed above.
