.. index:: labelmap

labelmap command
==================

Syntax
""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   labelmap option args

* *option* = *atom* or *bond* or *angle* or *dihedral* or *improper* or *clear* or *write*

  .. parsed-literal::

     *clear* = no args
     *write* arg = filename
     *atom* or *bond* or *angle* or *dihedral* or *improper*
       args = list of one or more numeric-type/type-label pairs

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   labelmap atom 1 c1 2 hc 3 cp 4 nt
   labelmap atom 3 carbon 4 'c3"' 5 "c1'" 6 "c#"
   labelmap atom $(label2type(atom,carbon)) C  # change type label from 'carbon' to 'C'
   labelmap clear
   labelmap atom 2 NULL                        # delete type label for atom type 2
   labelmap write mymap.include
   labelmap bond 1 carbonyl 2 nitrile 3 """ c1'-c2" """

Description
"""""""""""

.. versionadded:: 15Sep2022

Define alphanumeric type labels to associate with one or more numeric
atom, bond, angle, dihedral or improper types.  A collection of type
labels for all atom types, bond types, etc. is stored as a label map.

The label map can also be defined by the :doc:`read_data <read_data>`
command when it reads these sections in a data file: Atom Type Labels,
Bond Type Labels, etc.  See the :doc:`Howto type labels
<Howto_type_labels>` doc page for a general discussion of how type
labels can be used.  See :ref:`(Gissinger) <Typelabel1>` for a
discussion of the type label implementation in LAMMPS and its uses.

.. versionchanged:: TBD

   Using the type label NULL will delete the entry from the map.

Valid type labels can contain any alphanumeric character, but must not
start with a number, a '#', or a '*' character.  They can contain other
standard ASCII characters such as angular or square brackets '<' and '>'
or '[' and ']', parenthesis '(' and ')', dash '-', underscore '_', plus
'+' and equals '=' signs and more.  They must not contain blanks or any
other whitespace.  The type label NULL has a special meaning: it
indicates that **no** label should be assigned to the numeric type.
This can be used to selectively delete individual type labels.

Note that type labels must be put in single or double quotation marks if
they contain the '#' character or if they contain a double (") or single
quotation mark (').  If the label contains both a single and a double
quotation mark, then triple quotation (""") must be used.  When
enclosing a type label with quotation marks, the LAMMPS input parser may
require adding leading or trailing blanks around the type label so it
can identify the enclosing quotation marks.  Those blanks will be
removed when defining the label.

A *labelmap* command can only modify the label map for one type-kind
(atom types, bond types, etc).  Any number of numeric-type/type-label
pairs may follow.  If a type label already exists for the same numeric
type, it will be overwritten.  Type labels must be unique; assigning the
same type label to multiple numeric types within the same type-kind is
not allowed.  When reading and writing data files, it is required that
there is a label defined for *every* numeric type within a given
type-kind in order to write out the type label section for that
type-kind.

The *clear* option resets the *entire* label map for *all* type-kinds
and thus discards all previous settings.  Use the NULL label to delete
individual entries (see above).

The *write* option takes a filename as argument and writes the current
existing label mappings to a file as a sequence of *labelmap* commands,
so the file can be copied into a new LAMMPS input file or read in using
the :doc:`include <include>` command.  Since the *labelmap* command is
cumulative, it will **not** write out entries for types without type
labels.  Thus, if you want to restore the type label maps to a previous
state, you need to first use the labelmap command with the *clear*
option before including the file with the stored label maps.

----------

Restrictions
""""""""""""

This command must come after the simulation box is defined by a
:doc:`read_data <read_data>`, :doc:`read_restart <read_restart>`, or
:doc:`create_box <create_box>` command.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`read_data <read_data>`, :doc:`write_data <write_data>`,
:doc:`molecule <molecule>`, :doc:`fix bond/react <fix_bond_react>`

Default
"""""""

none

-----------

.. _Typelabel1:

**(Gissinger)** J. R. Gissinger, I. Nikiforov, Y. Afshar, B. Waters, M. Choi, D. S. Karls, A. Stukowski, W. Im, H. Heinz, A. Kohlmeyer, and E. B. Tadmor, J Phys Chem B, 128, 3282-3297 (2024).
