doc/src/pair_local_density.rst, before:

.. index:: pair_style local/density

pair_style local/density command
================================

Syntax
""""""


.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style style arg

* style = *local/density*
* arg = name of file containing tabulated values of local density and the potential

Examples
""""""""


.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style local/density benzene_water.localdensity.table

   pair_style hybrid/overlay table spline 500 local/density 
   pair_coeff * * local/density  benzene_water.localdensity.table

Description
"""""""""""

The local density (LD) potential is a mean-field manybody potential, and, in some 
sense,a generalization of embedded atom models (EAM). The name "local density 
potential" arises from the fact that it assigns an energy to an atom depending 
on the number of neighboring atoms of given type around it within a predefined 
spherical volume (i.e., within a cutoff). The bottom-up coarse-graining (CG)
literature suggests that such potentials can be widely useful  in capturing 
effective multibody forces in a computationally efficient manner so as to 
improve the quality of CG models of implicit solvation:ref:`(Sanyal1) <Sanyal1>` and 
phase-segregation in liquid mixtures:ref:`(Sanyal2) <Sanyal2>`, and provide guidelines 
to determine the extent of manybody correlations present in a CG 
model.:ref:`(Rosenberger) <Rosenberger>` The LD potential in LAMMPS is primarily 
intended to be used as a corrective potential over traditional pair potentials 
in bottom-up CG models, i.e., as a hybrid pair style with 
other explicit pair interaction terms (e.g., table spline, Lennard Jones, etc.). 
Because the LD potential is not a pair potential per se,  it is implemented 
simply as a single auxiliary file with all specifications that will be read 
upon initialization.

.. note::

   Thus when used as the only interaction in the system, there is no 
   corresponding pair\_coeff command and when used with other pair styles using the 
   hybrid/overlay option, the corresponding pair\_coeff command must be supplied
   \*  \* as placeholders for the atom types.


----------


**System with a single CG atom type:**

A system of a single atom type (e.g., LJ argon) with a single local density (LD)
potential would have an energy given by:

.. math::

   U_{LD} = \sum_i F(\rho_i)


where :math:`\rho_i` is the LD at atom *i* and :math:`F(\rho)` is
similar in spirit to the embedding function used in EAM potentials. The
LD at atom *i* is given by the sum

.. math::

   \rho_i = \sum_{j \neq i} \varphi(r_{ij})


where :math:`\varphi` is an indicator function that is one at r=0 and
zero beyond a cutoff distance R2. The choice of the functional form of
:math:`\varphi` is somewhat arbitrary, but the following piecewise cubic
function has proven sufficiently general: :ref:`(Sanyal1) <Sanyal1>`,
:ref:`(Sanyal2) <Sanyal2>` :ref:`(Rosenberger) <Rosenberger>`

.. math::

   \varphi(r) = 
   \begin{cases}
   1 & r \le R_1 \\
   c_0 + c_2r^2 + c_4r^4 + c_6r^6  & r \in (R_1, R_2) \\
   0 & r \ge R_2
   \end{cases}

The constants *c* are chosen so that the indicator function smoothly 
interpolates between 1 and 0 between the distances R1 and R2, which are 
called the inner and outer cutoffs, respectively. Thus phi satisfies 
phi(R1) = 1, phi(R2) = dphi/dr @ (r=R1) =  dphi/dr @ (r=R2) = 0. The embedding 
function F(rho) may or may not have a closed-form expression. To maintain 
generality, it is practically represented with a spline-interpolated table 
over a predetermined range of rho. Outside of that range it simply adopts zero 
values at the endpoints.

It can be shown that the total force between two atoms due to the LD potential 
takes the form of a pair force, which motivates its designation as a LAMMPS 
pair style. Please see :ref:`(Sanyal1) <Sanyal1>` for details of the derivation.


----------


**Systems with arbitrary numbers of atom types:**

The potential is easily generalized to systems involving multiple atom types:

.. math::

   U_{LD} = \sum_i a_\alpha F(\rho_i)


with the LD expressed as

.. math::

   \rho_i = \sum_{j \neq i} b_\beta \varphi(r_{ij})


where :math:`\alpha` gives the type of atom *i*\ , :math:`\beta` the
type of atom *j*\ , and the coefficients *a* and *b* filter for atom
types as specified by the user. *a* is called the central atom filter as
it determines to which atoms the potential applies; :math:`a_{\alpha} =
1` if the LD potential applies to atom type alpha else zero. On the
other hand, *b* is called the neighbor atom filter because it specifies
which atom types to use in the calculation of the LD; :math:`b_{\beta} =
1` if atom type :math:`\beta` contributes to the LD and zero otherwise.

.. note::

   Note that the potentials need not be symmetric with respect to atom
   types, which is the reason for two distinct sets of coefficients *a*
   and *b*\ . An atom type may contribute to the LD but not the
   potential, or to the potential but not the LD. Such decisions are
   made by the user and should (ideally) be motivated on physical
   grounds for the problem at hand.

----------

**General form for implementation in LAMMPS:**

Of course, a system with many atom types may have many different possible LD 
potentials, each with their own atom type filters, cutoffs, and embedding 
functions. The most general form of this potential as implemented in the 
pair\_style local/density is:

.. math::

   U_{LD} = \sum_k U_{LD}^{(k)} = \sum_i \left[ \sum_k a_\alpha^{(k)} F^{(k)} \left(\rho_i^{(k)}\right) \right] 


where, *k* is an index that spans the (arbitrary) number of applied LD
potentials N\_LD. Each LD is calculated as before with:

.. math::

   \rho_i^{(k)} = \sum_j b_\beta^{(k)} \varphi^{(k)} (r_{ij})


The superscript on the indicator function phi simply indicates that it is 
associated with specific values of the cutoff distances R1(k) and R2(k). In 
summary, there may be N\_LD distinct LD potentials. With each potential type (k), 
one must specify:

* the inner and outer cutoffs as R1 and R2
* the central type filter a(k), where k = 1,2,...N\_LD
* the neighbor type filter b(k), where k = 1,2,...N\_LD
* the LD potential function F(k)(rho), typically as a table that is later spline-interpolated

----------

**Tabulated input file format:**


.. parsed-literal::

   Line 1:             comment or blank (ignored)
   Line 2:             comment or blank (ignored)
   Line 3:             N_LD N_rho (# of LD potentials and # of tabulated values, single space separated)
   Line 4:             blank (ignored)
   Line 5:             R1(k) R2(k) (lower and upper cutoffs, single space separated)
   Line 6:             central-types (central atom types, single space separated)
   Line 7:             neighbor-types (neighbor atom types single space separated)
   Line 8:             rho_min rho_max drho (min, max and diff. in tabulated rho values, single space separated)
   Line 9:             F(k)(rho_min + 0.drho)
   Line 10:            F(k)(rho_min + 1.drho)
   Line 11:            F(k)(rho_min + 2.drho)
   ...
   Line 9+N_rho:       F(k)(rho_min + N_rho . drho)
   Line 10+N_rho:      blank (ignored)

   Block 2

   Block 3

   Block N_LD

Lines 5 to 9+N\_rho constitute the first block. Thus the input file is separated 
(by blank lines) into N\_LD blocks each representing a separate LD potential and 
each specifying its own upper and lower cutoffs, central and neighbor atoms, 
and potential.  In general, blank lines anywhere are ignored.

----------

**Mixing, shift, table, tail correction, restart, info**\ :
This pair style does not support automatic mixing. For atom type pairs alpha,
beta and alpha != beta, even if LD potentials of type (alpha, alpha) and 
(beta, beta) are provided, you will need to explicitly provide LD potential 
types (alpha, beta) and (beta, alpha) if need be (Here, the notation (alpha,
beta) means that alpha is the central atom to which the LD potential is applied
and beta is the neighbor atom which contributes to the LD potential on alpha).

This pair style does not support the :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>`
shift, table, and tail options.

The local/density pair style does not write its information to :doc:`binary restart files <restart>`, since it is stored in tabulated potential files.
Thus, you need to re-specify the pair\_style and pair\_coeff commands in
an input script that reads a restart file.


----------


Restrictions
""""""""""""


The local/density pair style is a part of the USER-MISC package. It is only
enabled if LAMMPS was built with that package.  See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` doc page for more info.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>`

**Default:** none


----------


.. _Sanyal1:



.. _Sanyal2:

**(Sanyal1)** Sanyal and Shell, Journal of Chemical Physics, 2016, 145 (3), 034109.


**(Sanyal2)** Sanyal and Shell, Journal of Physical Chemistry B, 122 (21), 5678-5693.

.. _Rosenberger:



**(Rosenberger)** Rosenberger, Sanyal, Shell and van der Vegt,  Journal of Chemical Physics, 2019, 151 (4), 044111.

Commit message:

some more formatting and math conversion improvements

doc/src/pair_local_density.rst, after:

.. index:: pair_style local/density

pair_style local/density command
================================

Syntax
""""""


.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style style arg

* style = *local/density*
* arg = name of file containing tabulated values of local density and the potential

Examples
""""""""


.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style local/density benzene_water.localdensity.table

   pair_style hybrid/overlay table spline 500 local/density 
   pair_coeff * * local/density  benzene_water.localdensity.table

Description
"""""""""""

The local density (LD) potential is a mean-field manybody potential, and, in some 
sense,a generalization of embedded atom models (EAM). The name "local density 
potential" arises from the fact that it assigns an energy to an atom depending 
on the number of neighboring atoms of given type around it within a predefined 
spherical volume (i.e., within a cutoff). The bottom-up coarse-graining (CG)
literature suggests that such potentials can be widely useful  in capturing 
effective multibody forces in a computationally efficient manner so as to 
improve the quality of CG models of implicit solvation:ref:`(Sanyal1) <Sanyal1>` and 
phase-segregation in liquid mixtures:ref:`(Sanyal2) <Sanyal2>`, and provide guidelines 
to determine the extent of manybody correlations present in a CG 
model.:ref:`(Rosenberger) <Rosenberger>` The LD potential in LAMMPS is primarily 
intended to be used as a corrective potential over traditional pair potentials 
in bottom-up CG models, i.e., as a hybrid pair style with 
other explicit pair interaction terms (e.g., table spline, Lennard Jones, etc.). 
Because the LD potential is not a pair potential per se,  it is implemented 
simply as a single auxiliary file with all specifications that will be read 
upon initialization.

.. note::

   Thus when used as the only interaction in the system, there is no 
   corresponding pair\_coeff command and when used with other pair styles using the 
   hybrid/overlay option, the corresponding pair\_coeff command must be supplied
   \*  \* as placeholders for the atom types.


----------


**System with a single CG atom type:**

A system of a single atom type (e.g., LJ argon) with a single local density (LD)
potential would have an energy given by:

.. math::

   U_{LD} = \sum_i F(\rho_i)


where :math:`\rho_i` is the LD at atom *i* and :math:`F(\rho)` is
similar in spirit to the embedding function used in EAM potentials. The
LD at atom *i* is given by the sum

.. math::

   \rho_i = \sum_{j \neq i} \varphi(r_{ij})


where :math:`\varphi` is an indicator function that is one at r=0 and
zero beyond a cutoff distance R2. The choice of the functional form of
:math:`\varphi` is somewhat arbitrary, but the following piecewise cubic
function has proven sufficiently general: :ref:`(Sanyal1) <Sanyal1>`,
:ref:`(Sanyal2) <Sanyal2>` :ref:`(Rosenberger) <Rosenberger>`

.. math::

   \varphi(r) = 
   \begin{cases}
   1 & r \le R_1 \\
   c_0 + c_2r^2 + c_4r^4 + c_6r^6  & r \in (R_1, R_2) \\
   0 & r \ge R_2
   \end{cases}

The constants *c* are chosen so that the indicator function smoothly 
interpolates between 1 and 0 between the distances R1 and R2, which are 
called the inner and outer cutoffs, respectively. Thus phi satisfies 
phi(R1) = 1, phi(R2) = dphi/dr @ (r=R1) =  dphi/dr @ (r=R2) = 0. The embedding 
function F(rho) may or may not have a closed-form expression. To maintain 
generality, it is practically represented with a spline-interpolated table 
over a predetermined range of rho. Outside of that range it simply adopts zero 
values at the endpoints.

It can be shown that the total force between two atoms due to the LD potential 
takes the form of a pair force, which motivates its designation as a LAMMPS 
pair style. Please see :ref:`(Sanyal1) <Sanyal1>` for details of the derivation.


----------


**Systems with arbitrary numbers of atom types:**

The potential is easily generalized to systems involving multiple atom types:

.. math::

   U_{LD} = \sum_i a_\alpha F(\rho_i)


with the LD expressed as

.. math::

   \rho_i = \sum_{j \neq i} b_\beta \varphi(r_{ij})


where :math:`\alpha` gives the type of atom *i*\ , :math:`\beta` the
type of atom *j*\ , and the coefficients *a* and *b* filter for atom
types as specified by the user. *a* is called the central atom filter as
it determines to which atoms the potential applies; :math:`a_{\alpha} =
1` if the LD potential applies to atom type :math:`\alpha` else zero. On the
other hand, *b* is called the neighbor atom filter because it specifies
which atom types to use in the calculation of the LD; :math:`b_{\beta} =
1` if atom type :math:`\beta` contributes to the LD and zero otherwise.

.. note::

   Note that the potentials need not be symmetric with respect to atom
   types, which is the reason for two distinct sets of coefficients *a*
   and *b*\ . An atom type may contribute to the LD but not the
   potential, or to the potential but not the LD. Such decisions are
   made by the user and should (ideally) be motivated on physical
   grounds for the problem at hand.

----------

**General form for implementation in LAMMPS:**

Of course, a system with many atom types may have many different possible LD 
potentials, each with their own atom type filters, cutoffs, and embedding 
functions. The most general form of this potential as implemented in the 
pair\_style local/density is:

.. math::

   U_{LD} = \sum_k U_{LD}^{(k)} = \sum_i \left[ \sum_k a_\alpha^{(k)} F^{(k)} \left(\rho_i^{(k)}\right) \right] 


where, *k* is an index that spans the (arbitrary) number of applied LD
potentials N\_LD. Each LD is calculated as before with:

.. math::

   \rho_i^{(k)} = \sum_j b_\beta^{(k)} \varphi^{(k)} (r_{ij})


The superscript on the indicator function phi simply indicates that it is 
associated with specific values of the cutoff distances R1(k) and R2(k). In 
summary, there may be N\_LD distinct LD potentials. With each potential type (k), 
one must specify:

* the inner and outer cutoffs as R1 and R2
* the central type filter a(k), where k = 1,2,...N\_LD
* the neighbor type filter b(k), where k = 1,2,...N\_LD
* the LD potential function F(k)(rho), typically as a table that is later spline-interpolated

----------

**Tabulated input file format:**


.. parsed-literal::

   Line 1:             comment or blank (ignored)
   Line 2:             comment or blank (ignored)
   Line 3:             N_LD N_rho (# of LD potentials and # of tabulated values, single space separated)
   Line 4:             blank (ignored)
   Line 5:             R1(k) R2(k) (lower and upper cutoffs, single space separated)
   Line 6:             central-types (central atom types, single space separated)
   Line 7:             neighbor-types (neighbor atom types single space separated)
   Line 8:             rho_min rho_max drho (min, max and diff. in tabulated rho values, single space separated)
   Line 9:             F(k)(rho_min + 0.drho)
   Line 10:            F(k)(rho_min + 1.drho)
   Line 11:            F(k)(rho_min + 2.drho)
   ...
   Line 9+N_rho:       F(k)(rho_min + N_rho . drho)
   Line 10+N_rho:      blank (ignored)

   Block 2

   Block 3

   Block N_LD

Lines 5 to 9+N\_rho constitute the first block. Thus the input file is separated 
(by blank lines) into N\_LD blocks each representing a separate LD potential and 
each specifying its own upper and lower cutoffs, central and neighbor atoms, 
and potential.  In general, blank lines anywhere are ignored.

----------

**Mixing, shift, table, tail correction, restart, info**\ :
This pair style does not support automatic mixing. For atom type pairs
:math:`\alpha`, :math:`\beta` and :math:`\alpha` != :math:`\beta`, even
if LD potentials of type (:math:`\alpha`, :math:`\alpha`) and
(:math:`\beta`, :math:`\beta`) are provided, you will need to explicitly
provide LD potential types (:math:`\alpha`, :math:`\beta`) and
(:math:`\beta`, :math:`\alpha`) if need be (Here, the notation
(:math:`\alpha`, :math:`\beta`) means that :math:`\alpha` is the central
atom to which the LD potential is applied and :math:`\beta` is the
neighbor atom which contributes to the LD potential on :math:`\alpha`).

This pair style does not support the :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>`
shift, table, and tail options.

The local/density pair style does not write its information to :doc:`binary restart files <restart>`, since it is stored in tabulated potential files.
Thus, you need to re-specify the pair\_style and pair\_coeff commands in
an input script that reads a restart file.


----------


Restrictions
""""""""""""


The local/density pair style is a part of the USER-MISC package. It is only
enabled if LAMMPS was built with that package.  See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` doc page for more info.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>`

**Default:** none


----------


.. _Sanyal1:



.. _Sanyal2:

**(Sanyal1)** Sanyal and Shell, Journal of Chemical Physics, 2016, 145 (3), 034109.


**(Sanyal2)** Sanyal and Shell, Journal of Physical Chemistry B, 122 (21), 5678-5693.

.. _Rosenberger:



**(Rosenberger)** Rosenberger, Sanyal, Shell and van der Vegt,  Journal of Chemical Physics, 2019, 151 (4), 044111.
