doc/src/pair_lj_smooth.rst, before:

.. index:: pair\_style lj/smooth

pair\_style lj/smooth command
=============================

pair\_style lj/smooth/omp command
=================================

Syntax
""""""


.. parsed-literal::

   pair_style lj/smooth Rin Rc

* Rin = inner cutoff beyond which force smoothing will be applied (distance units)
* Rc = outer cutoff for lj/smooth interactions (distance units)

Examples
""""""""


.. parsed-literal::

   pair_style lj/smooth 8.0 10.0
   pair_coeff \* \* 10.0 1.5
   pair_coeff 1 1 20.0 1.3 7.0 9.0

Description
"""""""""""

Style *lj/smooth* computes a LJ interaction with a force smoothing
applied between the inner and outer cutoff.

.. image:: Eqs/pair_lj_smooth.jpg
   :align: center

The polynomial coefficients C1, C2, C3, C4 are computed by LAMMPS to
cause the force to vary smoothly from the inner cutoff Rin to the
outer cutoff Rc.

At the inner cutoff the force and its 1st derivative
will match the non-smoothed LJ formula.  At the outer cutoff the force
and its 1st derivative will be 0.0.  The inner cutoff cannot be 0.0.

.. note::

   this force smoothing causes the energy to be discontinuous both
   in its values and 1st derivative.  This can lead to poor energy
   conservation and may require the use of a thermostat.  Plot the energy
   and force resulting from this formula via the
   :doc:`pair_write <pair_write>` command to see the effect.

The following coefficients must be defined for each pair of atoms
types via the :doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>` command as in the examples
above, or in the data file or restart files read by the
:doc:`read_data <read_data>` or :doc:`read_restart <read_restart>`
commands, or by mixing as described below:

* epsilon (energy units)
* sigma (distance units)
* inner (distance units)
* outer (distance units)

The last 2 coefficients are optional inner and outer cutoffs.  If not
specified, the global values for Rin and Rc are used.


----------


Styles with a *gpu*\ , *intel*\ , *kk*\ , *omp*\ , or *opt* suffix are
functionally the same as the corresponding style without the suffix.
They have been optimized to run faster, depending on your available
hardware, as discussed on the :doc:`Speed packages <Speed_packages>` doc
page.  The accelerated styles take the same arguments and should
produce the same results, except for round-off and precision issues.

These accelerated styles are part of the GPU, USER-INTEL, KOKKOS,
USER-OMP and OPT packages, respectively.  They are only enabled if
LAMMPS was built with those packages.  See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` doc page for more info.

You can specify the accelerated styles explicitly in your input script
by including their suffix, or you can use the :doc:`-suffix command-line switch <Run_options>` when you invoke LAMMPS, or you can use the
:doc:`suffix <suffix>` command in your input script.

See the :doc:`Speed packages <Speed_packages>` doc page for more
instructions on how to use the accelerated styles effectively.


----------


**Mixing, shift, table, tail correction, restart, rRESPA info**\ :

For atom type pairs I,J and I != J, the epsilon, sigma, Rin
coefficients and the cutoff distance for this pair style can be mixed.
Rin is a cutoff value and is mixed like the cutoff.  The other
coefficients are mixed according to the pair\_modify mix option.  The
default mix value is *geometric*\ .  See the "pair\_modify" command for
details.

This pair style supports the :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>` shift
option for the energy of the pair interaction.

The :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>` table option is not relevant
for this pair style.

This pair style does not support the :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>`
tail option for adding long-range tail corrections to energy and
pressure, since the energy of the pair interaction is smoothed to 0.0
at the cutoff.

This pair style writes its information to :doc:`binary restart files <restart>`, so pair\_style and pair\_coeff commands do not need
to be specified in an input script that reads a restart file.

This pair style can only be used via the *pair* keyword of the
:doc:`run_style respa <run_style>` command.  It does not support the
*inner*\ , *middle*\ , *outer* keywords.


----------


Restrictions
""""""""""""
 none

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>`, :doc:`pair lj/smooth/linear <pair_lj_smooth_linear>`

**Default:** none

Commit message:

convert remaining lj pair styles

doc/src/pair_lj_smooth.rst, after:

.. index:: pair\_style lj/smooth

pair\_style lj/smooth command
=============================

pair\_style lj/smooth/omp command
=================================

Syntax
""""""


.. parsed-literal::

   pair_style lj/smooth Rin Rc

* Rin = inner cutoff beyond which force smoothing will be applied (distance units)
* Rc = outer cutoff for lj/smooth interactions (distance units)

Examples
""""""""


.. parsed-literal::

   pair_style lj/smooth 8.0 10.0
   pair_coeff \* \* 10.0 1.5
   pair_coeff 1 1 20.0 1.3 7.0 9.0

Description
"""""""""""

Style *lj/smooth* computes a LJ interaction with a force smoothing
applied between the inner and outer cutoff.

.. math::

 E & =  4 \epsilon \left[ \left(\frac{\sigma}{r}\right)^{12} - 
                       \left(\frac{\sigma}{r}\right)^6 \right]
                       \qquad r < r_{in} \\
 F & =  C_1 + C_2 (r - r_{in}) + C_3 (r - r_{in})^2 + C_4 (r - r_{in})^3 
                       \qquad r_{in} < r < r_c


The polynomial coefficients C1, C2, C3, C4 are computed by LAMMPS to
cause the force to vary smoothly from the inner cutoff :math:`r_{in}` to the
outer cutoff :math:`r_c`.

At the inner cutoff the force and its 1st derivative
will match the non-smoothed LJ formula.  At the outer cutoff the force
and its 1st derivative will be 0.0.  The inner cutoff cannot be 0.0.

.. note::

   this force smoothing causes the energy to be discontinuous both
   in its values and 1st derivative.  This can lead to poor energy
   conservation and may require the use of a thermostat.  Plot the energy
   and force resulting from this formula via the
   :doc:`pair_write <pair_write>` command to see the effect.

The following coefficients must be defined for each pair of atoms
types via the :doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>` command as in the examples
above, or in the data file or restart files read by the
:doc:`read_data <read_data>` or :doc:`read_restart <read_restart>`
commands, or by mixing as described below:

* :math:`\epsilon` (energy units)
* :math:`\sigma` (distance units)
* :math:`r_{in}` (distance units)
* :math:`r_c` (distance units)

The last 2 coefficients are optional inner and outer cutoffs.  If not
specified, the global values for :math:`r_{in}` and :math:`r_c` are used.


----------


Styles with a *gpu*\ , *intel*\ , *kk*\ , *omp*\ , or *opt* suffix are
functionally the same as the corresponding style without the suffix.
They have been optimized to run faster, depending on your available
hardware, as discussed on the :doc:`Speed packages <Speed_packages>` doc
page.  The accelerated styles take the same arguments and should
produce the same results, except for round-off and precision issues.

These accelerated styles are part of the GPU, USER-INTEL, KOKKOS,
USER-OMP and OPT packages, respectively.  They are only enabled if
LAMMPS was built with those packages.  See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` doc page for more info.

You can specify the accelerated styles explicitly in your input script
by including their suffix, or you can use the :doc:`-suffix command-line switch <Run_options>` when you invoke LAMMPS, or you can use the
:doc:`suffix <suffix>` command in your input script.

See the :doc:`Speed packages <Speed_packages>` doc page for more
instructions on how to use the accelerated styles effectively.


----------


**Mixing, shift, table, tail correction, restart, rRESPA info**\ :

For atom type pairs I,J and I != J, the epsilon, sigma, Rin
coefficients and the cutoff distance for this pair style can be mixed.
Rin is a cutoff value and is mixed like the cutoff.  The other
coefficients are mixed according to the pair\_modify mix option.  The
default mix value is *geometric*\ .  See the "pair\_modify" command for
details.

This pair style supports the :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>` shift
option for the energy of the pair interaction.

The :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>` table option is not relevant
for this pair style.

This pair style does not support the :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>`
tail option for adding long-range tail corrections to energy and
pressure, since the energy of the pair interaction is smoothed to 0.0
at the cutoff.

This pair style writes its information to :doc:`binary restart files <restart>`, so pair\_style and pair\_coeff commands do not need
to be specified in an input script that reads a restart file.

This pair style can only be used via the *pair* keyword of the
:doc:`run_style respa <run_style>` command.  It does not support the
*inner*\ , *middle*\ , *outer* keywords.


----------


Restrictions
""""""""""""
 none

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>`, :doc:`pair lj/smooth/linear <pair_lj_smooth_linear>`

**Default:** none
