doc/src/pair_mlpod.rst, before:

.. index:: pair_style mlpod

pair_style mlpod command
========================

Syntax
""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style mlpod

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style mlpod
   pair_coeff * * pod.txt coefficient.txt

Description
"""""""""""

Pair style *mlpod* defines the proper orthogonal descriptor (POD) potential
:ref:`(Nguyen) <Nguyen20221>`.  The mathematical definition of the POD potential
is described from :doc:`fitpod <fitpod_command>`, which is used to fit the POD
potential to *ab initio* energy and force data.

Only a single pair_coeff command is used with the *mlpod* style which
specifies a POD parameter file followed by a coefficient file.

The coefficient file (coefficient.txt) contains coefficients for the POD potential. The top of the coefficient
file can contain any number of blank and comment lines (start with #), but follows a
strict format after that. The first non-blank non-comment line must contain:

* POD_coefficients: *ncoeff*

This is followed by *ncoeff* coefficients, one per line. The coefficient file
is generated after training the POD potential using :doc:`fitpod <fitpod_command>`.

The POD parameter file (pod.txt) can contain blank and comment lines (start
with #) anywhere. Each non-blank non-comment line must contain one
keyword/value pair. See :doc:`fitpod <fitpod_command>` for the description
of all the keywords that can be assigned in the parameter file.

----------

Restrictions
""""""""""""

This style is part of the ML-POD package.  It is only enabled if LAMMPS
was built with that package by setting -D PKG_ML-POD=on. See the :doc:`Build package
<Build_package>` page for more info.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`fitpod <fitpod_command>`,

Default
"""""""

none

----------

.. _Nguyen20221:

**(Nguyen)** Nguyen and Rohskopf, arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.02362 (2022).

Commit message:

document lack of per-atom energy/stress

doc/src/pair_mlpod.rst, after:

.. index:: pair_style mlpod

pair_style mlpod command
========================

Syntax
""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style mlpod

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style mlpod
   pair_coeff * * pod.txt coefficient.txt

Description
"""""""""""

Pair style *mlpod* defines the proper orthogonal descriptor (POD) potential
:ref:`(Nguyen) <Nguyen20221>`.  The mathematical definition of the POD potential
is described from :doc:`fitpod <fitpod_command>`, which is used to fit the POD
potential to *ab initio* energy and force data.

Only a single pair_coeff command is used with the *mlpod* style which
specifies a POD parameter file followed by a coefficient file.

The coefficient file (coefficient.txt) contains coefficients for the POD potential. The top of the coefficient
file can contain any number of blank and comment lines (start with #), but follows a
strict format after that. The first non-blank non-comment line must contain:

* POD_coefficients: *ncoeff*

This is followed by *ncoeff* coefficients, one per line. The coefficient file
is generated after training the POD potential using :doc:`fitpod <fitpod_command>`.

The POD parameter file (pod.txt) can contain blank and comment lines (start
with #) anywhere. Each non-blank non-comment line must contain one
keyword/value pair. See :doc:`fitpod <fitpod_command>` for the description
of all the keywords that can be assigned in the parameter file.

----------

Restrictions
""""""""""""

This style is part of the ML-POD package.  It is only enabled if LAMMPS
was built with that package by setting -D PKG_ML-POD=on. See the :doc:`Build package
<Build_package>` page for more info.

This pair style does not compute per-atom energies or per-atom stress.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`fitpod <fitpod_command>`,

Default
"""""""

none

----------

.. _Nguyen20221:

**(Nguyen)** Nguyen and Rohskopf, arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.02362 (2022).
