doc/src/pair_reaxff.rst, before:

.. index:: pair_style reaxff
.. index:: pair_style reaxff/kk
.. index:: pair_style reaxff/omp

pair_style reaxff command
=========================

Accelerator Variants: *reaxff/kk*, *reaxff/omp*

Syntax
""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style reaxff cfile keyword value

* cfile = NULL or name of a control file
* zero or more keyword/value pairs may be appended

  .. parsed-literal::

     keyword = *checkqeq* or *lgvdw* or *safezone* or *mincap* or *minhbonds*
       *checkqeq* value = *yes* or *no* = whether or not to require qeq/reaxff fix
       *enobonds* value = *yes* or *no* = whether or not to tally energy of atoms with no bonds
       *lgvdw* value = *yes* or *no* = whether or not to use a low gradient vdW correction
       *safezone* = factor used for array allocation
       *mincap* = minimum size for array allocation
       *minhbonds* = minimum size use for storing hydrogen bonds

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style reaxff NULL
   pair_style reaxff controlfile checkqeq no
   pair_style reaxff NULL lgvdw yes
   pair_style reaxff NULL safezone 1.6 mincap 100
   pair_coeff * * ffield.reax C H O N

Description
"""""""""""

Style *reaxff* computes the ReaxFF potential of van Duin, Goddard and
co-workers.  ReaxFF uses distance-dependent bond-order functions to
represent the contributions of chemical bonding to the potential
energy. There is more than one version of ReaxFF. The version
implemented in LAMMPS uses the functional forms documented in the
supplemental information of the following paper:
:ref:`(Chenoweth et al., 2008) <Chenoweth_20082>`.  The version integrated
into LAMMPS matches the version of ReaxFF From Summer 2010.  For more
technical details about the pair reaxff implementation of ReaxFF, see
the :ref:`(Aktulga) <Aktulga>` paper. The *reaxff* style was initially
implemented as a stand-alone C code and is now converted to C++ and
integrated into LAMMPS as a package.

The *reaxff/kk* style is a Kokkos version of the ReaxFF potential that
is derived from the *reaxff* style. The Kokkos version can run on GPUs
and can also use OpenMP multithreading. For more information about the
Kokkos package, see :doc:`Packages details <Packages_details>` and
:doc:`Speed kokkos <Speed_kokkos>` doc pages.  One important
consideration when using the *reaxff/kk* style is the choice of either
half or full neighbor lists. This setting can be changed using the
Kokkos :doc:`package <package>` command.

The *reaxff* style differs from the (obsolete) "pair_style reax"
command in the implementation details.  The *reax* style was a
Fortran library, linked to LAMMPS.  The *reax* style has been removed
from LAMMPS after the 12 December 2018 version.

LAMMPS provides several different versions of ffield.reax in its
potentials dir, each called potentials/ffield.reax.label.  These are
documented in potentials/README.reax.  The default ffield.reax
contains parameterizations for the following elements: C, H, O, N.

The format of these files is identical to that used originally by van
Duin.  We have tested the accuracy of *pair_style reaxff* potential
against the original ReaxFF code for the systems mentioned above.  You
can use other ffield files for specific chemical systems that may be
available elsewhere (but note that their accuracy may not have been
tested).

.. note::

   We do not distribute a wide variety of ReaxFF force field files
   with LAMMPS.  Adri van Duin's group at PSU is the central repository
   for this kind of data as they are continuously deriving and updating
   parameterizations for different classes of materials.  You can submit
   a contact request at the Materials Computation Center (MCC) website
   `https://www.mri.psu.edu/materials-computation-center/connect-mcc <https://www.mri.psu.edu/materials-computation-center/connect-mcc>`_,
   describing the material(s) you are interested in modeling with ReaxFF.
   They can tell you what is currently available or what it would take to
   create a suitable ReaxFF parameterization.

The *cfile* setting can be specified as NULL, in which case default
settings are used. A control file can be specified which defines values
of control variables. Some control variables are global parameters for
the ReaxFF potential. Others define certain performance and output
settings.  Each line in the control file specifies the value for a
control variable.  The format of the control file is described below.

.. note::

   The LAMMPS default values for the ReaxFF global parameters
   correspond to those used by Adri van Duin's stand-alone serial
   code.  If these are changed by setting control variables in the
   control file, the results from LAMMPS and the serial code will
   not agree.

Examples using *pair_style reaxff* are provided in the examples/reax
sub-directory.

Use of this pair style requires that a charge be defined for every
atom.  See the :doc:`atom_style <atom_style>` and
:doc:`read_data <read_data>` commands for details on how to specify
charges.

The ReaxFF parameter files provided were created using a charge
equilibration (QEq) model for handling the electrostatic interactions.
Therefore, by default, LAMMPS requires that either the
:doc:`fix qeq/reaxff <fix_qeq_reaxff>` or the
:doc:`fix qeq/shielded <fix_qeq>` command be used with
*pair_style reaxff* when simulating a ReaxFF model, to equilibrate
the charges each timestep.

Using the keyword *checkqeq* with the value *no* turns off the check
for the QEq fixes, allowing a simulation to be run without charge
equilibration. In this case, the static charges you assign to each
atom will be used for computing the electrostatic interactions in
the system. See the :doc:`fix qeq/reaxff <fix_qeq_reaxff>` or
:doc:`fix qeq/shielded <fix_qeq>` command documentation for more details.

Using the optional keyword *lgvdw* with the value *yes* turns on the
low-gradient correction of ReaxFF for long-range London Dispersion,
as described in the :ref:`(Liu) <Liu_2011>` paper. The bundled force
field file *ffield.reax.lg* is designed for this correction, and is
trained for several energetic materials (see "Liu"). When using *lgvdw yes*,
the recommended value for parameter *thb* is 0.01, which can be set in the
control file.  Note: Force field files are different for the original
or lg corrected pair styles, using the wrong ffield file generates an
error.

Using the optional keyword *enobonds* with the value *yes*, the energy
of atoms with no bonds (i.e. isolated atoms) is included in the total
potential energy and the per-atom energy of that atom.  If the value
*no* is specified then the energy of atoms with no bonds is set to
zero.  The latter behavior is usual not desired, as it causes
discontinuities in the potential energy when the bonding of an atom
drops to zero.

Optional keywords *safezone*, *mincap*, and *minhbonds* are used
for allocating reaxff arrays.  Increasing these values can avoid memory
problems, such as segmentation faults and bondchk failed errors, that
could occur under certain conditions. These keywords are not used by
the Kokkos version, which instead uses a more robust memory allocation
scheme that checks if the sizes of the arrays have been exceeded and
automatically allocates more memory.

The thermo variable *evdwl* stores the sum of all the ReaxFF potential
energy contributions, with the exception of the Coulombic and charge
equilibration contributions which are stored in the thermo variable
*ecoul*\ .  The output of these quantities is controlled by the
:doc:`thermo <thermo>` command.

This pair style tallies a breakdown of the total ReaxFF potential
energy into sub-categories, which can be accessed via the
:doc:`compute pair <compute_pair>` command as a vector of values of length 14.
The 14 values correspond to the following sub-categories (the variable
names in italics match those used in the original FORTRAN ReaxFF
code):

1. *eb* = bond energy
2. *ea* = atom energy
3. *elp* = lone-pair energy
4. *emol* = molecule energy (always 0.0)
5. *ev* = valence angle energy
6. *epen* = double-bond valence angle penalty
7. *ecoa* = valence angle conjugation energy
8. *ehb* = hydrogen bond energy
9. *et* = torsion energy
10. *eco* = conjugation energy
11. *ew* = van der Waals energy
12. *ep* = Coulomb energy
13. *efi* = electric field energy (always 0.0)
14. *eqeq* = charge equilibration energy

To print these quantities to the log file (with descriptive column
headings) the following commands could be included in an input script:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   compute reax all pair reaxff
   variable eb      equal c_reax[1]
   variable ea      equal c_reax[2]
   [...]
   variable eqeq    equal c_reax[14]
   thermo_style custom step temp epair v_eb v_ea [...] v_eqeq

Only a single pair_coeff command is used with the *reaxff* style which
specifies a ReaxFF potential file with parameters for all needed
elements.  These are mapped to LAMMPS atom types by specifying N
additional arguments after the filename in the pair_coeff command,
where N is the number of LAMMPS atom types:

* filename
* N indices = ReaxFF elements

The filename is the ReaxFF potential file.

In the ReaxFF potential file, near the top, after the general
parameters, is the atomic parameters section that contains element
names, each with a couple dozen numeric parameters.  If there are M
elements specified in the *ffield* file, think of these as numbered 1
to M. Each of the N indices you specify for the N atom types of LAMMPS
atoms must be an integer from 1 to M.  Atoms with LAMMPS type 1 will
be mapped to whatever element you specify as the first index value,
etc.  If a mapping value is specified as NULL, the mapping is not
performed.  This can be used when the *reaxff* style is used as part
of the *hybrid* pair style.  The NULL values are placeholders for atom
types that will be used with other potentials.

As an example, say your LAMMPS simulation has 4 atom types and the
elements are ordered as C, H, O, N in the *ffield* file.  If you want
the LAMMPS atom type 1 and 2 to be C, type 3 to be N, and type 4 to be
H, you would use the following pair_coeff command:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_coeff * * ffield.reax C C N H

-------------

Control file
""""""""""""

The format of a line in the control file is as follows:

.. parsed-literal::

   variable_name value

and it may be followed by an "!" character and a trailing comment.

If the value of a control variable is not specified, then default
values are used.  What follows is the list of variables along with a
brief description of their use and default values.


*simulation_name*
   Output files produced by *pair_style reaxff* carry
   this name + extensions specific to their contents.  Partial energies
   are reported with a ".pot" extension, while the trajectory file has
   ".trj" extension.

*tabulate_long_range*
   To improve performance, long range interactions can optionally be
   tabulated (0 means no tabulation). Value of this variable denotes the
   size of the long range interaction table.  The range from 0 to long
   range cutoff (defined in the *ffield* file) is divided into
   *tabulate_long_range* points.  Then at the start of simulation, we
   fill in the entries of the long range interaction table by computing
   the energies and forces resulting from van der Waals and Coulomb
   interactions between every possible atom type pairs present in the
   input system.  During the simulation we consult to the long range
   interaction table to estimate the energy and forces between a pair of
   atoms. Linear interpolation is used for estimation. (default value = 0)

*energy_update_freq*
   Denotes the frequency (in number of steps) of writes into the partial
   energies file. (default value = 0)

*nbrhood_cutoff*
   Denotes the near neighbors cutoff (in Angstroms)
   regarding the bonded interactions. (default value = 5.0)

*hbond_cutoff*
   Denotes the cutoff distance (in Angstroms) for hydrogen
   bond interactions.(default value = 7.5. A value of 0.0 turns off
   hydrogen bonds)

*bond_graph_cutoff*
   is the threshold used in determining what is a
   physical bond, what is not. Bonds and angles reported in the
   trajectory file rely on this cutoff. (default value = 0.3)

*thb_cutoff*
   cutoff value for the strength of bonds to be considered in
   three body interactions. (default value = 0.001)

*thb_cutoff_sq*
   cutoff value for the strength of bond order products
   to be considered in three body interactions. (default value = 0.00001)

*write_freq*
   Frequency of writes into the trajectory file. (default value = 0)

*traj_title*
   Title of the trajectory - not the name of the trajectory file.

*atom_info*
   1 means print only atomic positions + charge (default = 0)

*atom_forces*
   1 adds net forces to atom lines in the trajectory file (default = 0)

*atom_velocities*
   1 adds atomic velocities to atoms line (default = 0)

*bond_info*
   1 prints bonds in the trajectory file (default = 0)

*angle_info*
   1 prints angles in the trajectory file (default = 0)

----------

Mixing, shift, table, tail correction, restart, rRESPA info
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This pair style does not support the :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>`
mix, shift, table, and tail options.

This pair style does not write its information to :doc:`binary restart files <restart>`,
since it is stored in potential files.  Thus, you
need to re-specify the pair_style and pair_coeff commands in an input
script that reads a restart file.

This pair style can only be used via the *pair* keyword of the
:doc:`run_style respa <run_style>` command.  It does not support the
*inner*, *middle*, *outer* keywords.

----------

.. include:: accel_styles.rst

----------

Restrictions
""""""""""""

This pair style is part of the REAXFF package.  It is only enabled
if LAMMPS was built with that package.
See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` page for more info.

The ReaxFF potential files provided with LAMMPS in the potentials
directory are parameterized for *real* :doc:`units <units>`.  You can use
the ReaxFF pair style with any LAMMPS units, but you would need to
create your own potential file with coefficients listed in the
appropriate units if your simulation does not use "real" units.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>`, :doc:`fix qeq/reaxff <fix_qeq_reaxff>`,
:doc:`fix reaxff/bonds <fix_reaxff_bonds>`, :doc:`fix reaxff/species <fix_reaxff_species>`

Default
"""""""

The keyword defaults are checkqeq = yes, enobonds = yes, lgvdw = no,
safezone = 1.2, mincap = 50, minhbonds = 25.

----------

.. _Chenoweth_20082:

**(Chenoweth_2008)** Chenoweth, van Duin and Goddard,
Journal of Physical Chemistry A, 112, 1040-1053 (2008).

.. _Aktulga:

(Aktulga) Aktulga, Fogarty, Pandit, Grama, Parallel Computing, 38,
245-259 (2012).

.. _Liu_2011:

**(Liu)** L. Liu, Y. Liu, S. V. Zybin, H. Sun and W. A. Goddard, Journal
of Physical Chemistry A, 115, 11016-11022 (2011).

Commit message:

Add ACKS2 charge equilibration method to REAXFF and support for electric fields in QEq

doc/src/pair_reaxff.rst, after:

.. index:: pair_style reaxff
.. index:: pair_style reaxff/kk
.. index:: pair_style reaxff/omp

pair_style reaxff command
=========================

Accelerator Variants: *reaxff/kk*, *reaxff/omp*

Syntax
""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style reaxff cfile keyword value

* cfile = NULL or name of a control file
* zero or more keyword/value pairs may be appended

  .. parsed-literal::

     keyword = *checkqeq* or *lgvdw* or *safezone* or *mincap* or *minhbonds*
       *checkqeq* value = *yes* or *no* = whether or not to require qeq/reaxff or acks2/reax fix
       *enobonds* value = *yes* or *no* = whether or not to tally energy of atoms with no bonds
       *lgvdw* value = *yes* or *no* = whether or not to use a low gradient vdW correction
       *safezone* = factor used for array allocation
       *mincap* = minimum size for array allocation
       *minhbonds* = minimum size use for storing hydrogen bonds

Examples
""""""""

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_style reaxff NULL
   pair_style reaxff controlfile checkqeq no
   pair_style reaxff NULL lgvdw yes
   pair_style reaxff NULL safezone 1.6 mincap 100
   pair_coeff * * ffield.reax C H O N

Description
"""""""""""

Style *reaxff* computes the ReaxFF potential of van Duin, Goddard and
co-workers.  ReaxFF uses distance-dependent bond-order functions to
represent the contributions of chemical bonding to the potential
energy. There is more than one version of ReaxFF. The version
implemented in LAMMPS uses the functional forms documented in the
supplemental information of the following paper:
:ref:`(Chenoweth et al., 2008) <Chenoweth_20082>`.  The version integrated
into LAMMPS matches the version of ReaxFF From Summer 2010.  For more
technical details about the pair reaxff implementation of ReaxFF, see
the :ref:`(Aktulga) <Aktulga>` paper. The *reaxff* style was initially
implemented as a stand-alone C code and is now converted to C++ and
integrated into LAMMPS as a package.

The *reaxff/kk* style is a Kokkos version of the ReaxFF potential that
is derived from the *reaxff* style. The Kokkos version can run on GPUs
and can also use OpenMP multithreading. For more information about the
Kokkos package, see :doc:`Packages details <Packages_details>` and
:doc:`Speed kokkos <Speed_kokkos>` doc pages.  One important
consideration when using the *reaxff/kk* style is the choice of either
half or full neighbor lists. This setting can be changed using the
Kokkos :doc:`package <package>` command.

The *reaxff* style differs from the (obsolete) "pair_style reax"
command in the implementation details.  The *reax* style was a
Fortran library, linked to LAMMPS.  The *reax* style has been removed
from LAMMPS after the 12 December 2018 version.

LAMMPS provides several different versions of ffield.reax in its
potentials dir, each called potentials/ffield.reax.label.  These are
documented in potentials/README.reax.  The default ffield.reax
contains parameterizations for the following elements: C, H, O, N.

The format of these files is identical to that used originally by van
Duin.  We have tested the accuracy of *pair_style reaxff* potential
against the original ReaxFF code for the systems mentioned above.  You
can use other ffield files for specific chemical systems that may be
available elsewhere (but note that their accuracy may not have been
tested).

.. note::

   We do not distribute a wide variety of ReaxFF force field files
   with LAMMPS.  Adri van Duin's group at PSU is the central repository
   for this kind of data as they are continuously deriving and updating
   parameterizations for different classes of materials.  You can submit
   a contact request at the Materials Computation Center (MCC) website
   `https://www.mri.psu.edu/materials-computation-center/connect-mcc <https://www.mri.psu.edu/materials-computation-center/connect-mcc>`_,
   describing the material(s) you are interested in modeling with ReaxFF.
   They can tell you what is currently available or what it would take to
   create a suitable ReaxFF parameterization.

The *cfile* setting can be specified as NULL, in which case default
settings are used. A control file can be specified which defines values
of control variables. Some control variables are global parameters for
the ReaxFF potential. Others define certain performance and output
settings.  Each line in the control file specifies the value for a
control variable.  The format of the control file is described below.

.. note::

   The LAMMPS default values for the ReaxFF global parameters
   correspond to those used by Adri van Duin's stand-alone serial
   code.  If these are changed by setting control variables in the
   control file, the results from LAMMPS and the serial code will
   not agree.

Examples using *pair_style reaxff* are provided in the examples/reax
sub-directory.

Use of this pair style requires that a charge be defined for every
atom.  See the :doc:`atom_style <atom_style>` and
:doc:`read_data <read_data>` commands for details on how to specify
charges.

The ReaxFF parameter files provided were created using a charge
equilibration (QEq) model for handling the electrostatic interactions.
Therefore, by default, LAMMPS requires that either the
:doc:`fix qeq/reaxff <fix_qeq_reaxff>` or the
:doc:`fix qeq/shielded <fix_qeq>` or :doc:`fix acks2/reaxff <fix_acks2>`
command be used with
*pair_style reaxff* when simulating a ReaxFF model, to equilibrate
the charges each timestep.

Using the keyword *checkqeq* with the value *no* turns off the check
for the QEq fixes, allowing a simulation to be run without charge
equilibration. In this case, the static charges you assign to each
atom will be used for computing the electrostatic interactions in
the system. See the :doc:`fix qeq/reaxff <fix_qeq_reaxff>` or
:doc:`fix qeq/shielded <fix_qeq>` or :doc:`fix acks2/reaxff <fix_acks2>`
command documentation for more details.

Using the optional keyword *lgvdw* with the value *yes* turns on the
low-gradient correction of ReaxFF for long-range London Dispersion,
as described in the :ref:`(Liu) <Liu_2011>` paper. The bundled force
field file *ffield.reax.lg* is designed for this correction, and is
trained for several energetic materials (see "Liu"). When using *lgvdw yes*,
the recommended value for parameter *thb* is 0.01, which can be set in the
control file.  Note: Force field files are different for the original
or lg corrected pair styles, using the wrong ffield file generates an
error.

Using the optional keyword *enobonds* with the value *yes*, the energy
of atoms with no bonds (i.e. isolated atoms) is included in the total
potential energy and the per-atom energy of that atom.  If the value
*no* is specified then the energy of atoms with no bonds is set to
zero.  The latter behavior is usual not desired, as it causes
discontinuities in the potential energy when the bonding of an atom
drops to zero.

Optional keywords *safezone*, *mincap*, and *minhbonds* are used
for allocating reaxff arrays.  Increasing these values can avoid memory
problems, such as segmentation faults and bondchk failed errors, that
could occur under certain conditions. These keywords are not used by
the Kokkos version, which instead uses a more robust memory allocation
scheme that checks if the sizes of the arrays have been exceeded and
automatically allocates more memory.

The thermo variable *evdwl* stores the sum of all the ReaxFF potential
energy contributions, with the exception of the Coulombic and charge
equilibration contributions which are stored in the thermo variable
*ecoul*\ .  The output of these quantities is controlled by the
:doc:`thermo <thermo>` command.

This pair style tallies a breakdown of the total ReaxFF potential
energy into sub-categories, which can be accessed via the
:doc:`compute pair <compute_pair>` command as a vector of values of length 14.
The 14 values correspond to the following sub-categories (the variable
names in italics match those used in the original FORTRAN ReaxFF
code):

1. *eb* = bond energy
2. *ea* = atom energy
3. *elp* = lone-pair energy
4. *emol* = molecule energy (always 0.0)
5. *ev* = valence angle energy
6. *epen* = double-bond valence angle penalty
7. *ecoa* = valence angle conjugation energy
8. *ehb* = hydrogen bond energy
9. *et* = torsion energy
10. *eco* = conjugation energy
11. *ew* = van der Waals energy
12. *ep* = Coulomb energy
13. *efi* = electric field energy (always 0.0)
14. *eqeq* = charge equilibration energy

To print these quantities to the log file (with descriptive column
headings) the following commands could be included in an input script:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   compute reax all pair reaxff
   variable eb      equal c_reax[1]
   variable ea      equal c_reax[2]
   [...]
   variable eqeq    equal c_reax[14]
   thermo_style custom step temp epair v_eb v_ea [...] v_eqeq

Only a single pair_coeff command is used with the *reaxff* style which
specifies a ReaxFF potential file with parameters for all needed
elements.  These are mapped to LAMMPS atom types by specifying N
additional arguments after the filename in the pair_coeff command,
where N is the number of LAMMPS atom types:

* filename
* N indices = ReaxFF elements

The filename is the ReaxFF potential file.

In the ReaxFF potential file, near the top, after the general
parameters, is the atomic parameters section that contains element
names, each with a couple dozen numeric parameters.  If there are M
elements specified in the *ffield* file, think of these as numbered 1
to M. Each of the N indices you specify for the N atom types of LAMMPS
atoms must be an integer from 1 to M.  Atoms with LAMMPS type 1 will
be mapped to whatever element you specify as the first index value,
etc.  If a mapping value is specified as NULL, the mapping is not
performed.  This can be used when the *reaxff* style is used as part
of the *hybrid* pair style.  The NULL values are placeholders for atom
types that will be used with other potentials.

As an example, say your LAMMPS simulation has 4 atom types and the
elements are ordered as C, H, O, N in the *ffield* file.  If you want
the LAMMPS atom type 1 and 2 to be C, type 3 to be N, and type 4 to be
H, you would use the following pair_coeff command:

.. code-block:: LAMMPS

   pair_coeff * * ffield.reax C C N H

-------------

Control file
""""""""""""

The format of a line in the control file is as follows:

.. parsed-literal::

   variable_name value

and it may be followed by an "!" character and a trailing comment.

If the value of a control variable is not specified, then default
values are used.  What follows is the list of variables along with a
brief description of their use and default values.


*simulation_name*
   Output files produced by *pair_style reaxff* carry
   this name + extensions specific to their contents.  Partial energies
   are reported with a ".pot" extension, while the trajectory file has
   ".trj" extension.

*tabulate_long_range*
   To improve performance, long range interactions can optionally be
   tabulated (0 means no tabulation). Value of this variable denotes the
   size of the long range interaction table.  The range from 0 to long
   range cutoff (defined in the *ffield* file) is divided into
   *tabulate_long_range* points.  Then at the start of simulation, we
   fill in the entries of the long range interaction table by computing
   the energies and forces resulting from van der Waals and Coulomb
   interactions between every possible atom type pairs present in the
   input system.  During the simulation we consult to the long range
   interaction table to estimate the energy and forces between a pair of
   atoms. Linear interpolation is used for estimation. (default value = 0)

*energy_update_freq*
   Denotes the frequency (in number of steps) of writes into the partial
   energies file. (default value = 0)

*nbrhood_cutoff*
   Denotes the near neighbors cutoff (in Angstroms)
   regarding the bonded interactions. (default value = 5.0)

*hbond_cutoff*
   Denotes the cutoff distance (in Angstroms) for hydrogen
   bond interactions.(default value = 7.5. A value of 0.0 turns off
   hydrogen bonds)

*bond_graph_cutoff*
   is the threshold used in determining what is a
   physical bond, what is not. Bonds and angles reported in the
   trajectory file rely on this cutoff. (default value = 0.3)

*thb_cutoff*
   cutoff value for the strength of bonds to be considered in
   three body interactions. (default value = 0.001)

*thb_cutoff_sq*
   cutoff value for the strength of bond order products
   to be considered in three body interactions. (default value = 0.00001)

*write_freq*
   Frequency of writes into the trajectory file. (default value = 0)

*traj_title*
   Title of the trajectory - not the name of the trajectory file.

*atom_info*
   1 means print only atomic positions + charge (default = 0)

*atom_forces*
   1 adds net forces to atom lines in the trajectory file (default = 0)

*atom_velocities*
   1 adds atomic velocities to atoms line (default = 0)

*bond_info*
   1 prints bonds in the trajectory file (default = 0)

*angle_info*
   1 prints angles in the trajectory file (default = 0)

----------

Mixing, shift, table, tail correction, restart, rRESPA info
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

This pair style does not support the :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>`
mix, shift, table, and tail options.

This pair style does not write its information to :doc:`binary restart files <restart>`,
since it is stored in potential files.  Thus, you
need to re-specify the pair_style and pair_coeff commands in an input
script that reads a restart file.

This pair style can only be used via the *pair* keyword of the
:doc:`run_style respa <run_style>` command.  It does not support the
*inner*, *middle*, *outer* keywords.

----------

.. include:: accel_styles.rst

----------

Restrictions
""""""""""""

This pair style is part of the REAXFF package.  It is only enabled
if LAMMPS was built with that package.
See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` page for more info.

The ReaxFF potential files provided with LAMMPS in the potentials
directory are parameterized for *real* :doc:`units <units>`.  You can use
the ReaxFF pair style with any LAMMPS units, but you would need to
create your own potential file with coefficients listed in the
appropriate units if your simulation does not use "real" units.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>`, :doc:`fix qeq/reaxff <fix_qeq_reaxff>`,
:doc:`fix acks2/reax <fix_acks2_reax>`, :doc:`fix reaxff/bonds <fix_reaxff_bonds>`,
:doc:`fix reaxff/species <fix_reaxff_species>`

Default
"""""""

The keyword defaults are checkqeq = yes, enobonds = yes, lgvdw = no,
safezone = 1.2, mincap = 50, minhbonds = 25.

----------

.. _Chenoweth_20082:

**(Chenoweth_2008)** Chenoweth, van Duin and Goddard,
Journal of Physical Chemistry A, 112, 1040-1053 (2008).

.. _Aktulga:

(Aktulga) Aktulga, Fogarty, Pandit, Grama, Parallel Computing, 38,
245-259 (2012).

.. _Liu_2011:

**(Liu)** L. Liu, Y. Liu, S. V. Zybin, H. Sun and W. A. Goddard, Journal
of Physical Chemistry A, 115, 11016-11022 (2011).
