doc/src/pair_gauss.rst, before:

.. index:: pair\_style gauss

pair\_style gauss command
=========================

pair\_style gauss/gpu command
=============================

pair\_style gauss/omp command
=============================

pair\_style gauss/cut command
=============================

pair\_style gauss/cut/omp command
=================================

Syntax
""""""


.. parsed-literal::

   pair_style gauss cutoff
   pair_style gauss/cut cutoff

* cutoff = global cutoff for Gauss interactions (distance units)

Examples
""""""""


.. parsed-literal::

   pair_style gauss 12.0
   pair_coeff \* \* 1.0 0.9
   pair_coeff 1 4 1.0 0.9 10.0

   pair_style gauss/cut 3.5
   pair_coeff 1 4 0.2805 1.45 0.112

Description
"""""""""""

Style *gauss* computes a tethering potential of the form

.. image:: Eqs/pair_gauss.jpg
   :align: center

between an atom and its corresponding tether site which will typically
be a frozen atom in the simulation.  Rc is the cutoff.

The following coefficients must be defined for each pair of atom types
via the :doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>` command as in the examples above,
or in the data file or restart files read by the
:doc:`read_data <read_data>` or :doc:`read_restart <read_restart>`
commands:

* A (energy units)
* B (1/distance\^2 units)
* cutoff (distance units)

The last coefficient is optional. If not specified, the global cutoff
is used.

Style *gauss/cut* computes a generalized Gaussian interaction potential
between pairs of particles:

.. image:: Eqs/pair_gauss_cut.jpg
   :align: center

where H determines together with the standard deviation sigma\_h the
peak height of the Gaussian function, and r\_mh the peak position.
Examples of the use of the Gaussian potentials include implicit
solvent simulations of salt ions :ref:`(Lenart) <Lenart2>` and of surfactants
:ref:`(Jusufi) <Jusufi2>`.  In these instances the Gaussian potential mimics
the hydration barrier between a pair of particles. The hydration
barrier is located at r\_mh and has a width of sigma\_h. The prefactor
determines the height of the potential barrier.

The following coefficients must be defined for each pair of atom types
via the :doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>` command as in the example above,
or in the data file or restart files read by the
:doc:`read_data <read_data>` or :doc:`read_restart <read_restart>`
commands:

* H (energy \* distance units)
* r\_mh (distance units)
* sigma\_h (distance units)
* cutoff (distance units)

The last coefficient is optional. If not specified, the global cutoff
is used.


----------


Styles with a *gpu*\ , *intel*\ , *kk*\ , *omp*\ , or *opt* suffix are
functionally the same as the corresponding style without the suffix.
They have been optimized to run faster, depending on your available
hardware, as discussed on the :doc:`Speed packages <Speed_packages>` doc
page.  The accelerated styles take the same arguments and should
produce the same results, except for round-off and precision issues.

These accelerated styles are part of the GPU, USER-INTEL, KOKKOS,
USER-OMP and OPT packages, respectively.  They are only enabled if
LAMMPS was built with those packages.  See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` doc page for more info.

You can specify the accelerated styles explicitly in your input script
by including their suffix, or you can use the :doc:`-suffix command-line switch <Run_options>` when you invoke LAMMPS, or you can use the
:doc:`suffix <suffix>` command in your input script.

See the :doc:`Speed packages <Speed_packages>` doc page for more
instructions on how to use the accelerated styles effectively.


----------


**Mixing, shift, table, tail correction, restart, rRESPA info**\ :

For atom type pairs I,J and I != J, the A, B, H, sigma\_h, r\_mh
parameters, and the cutoff distance for these pair styles can be mixed:
A (energy units)
sqrt(1/B) (distance units, see below)
H (energy units)
sigma\_h (distance units)
r\_mh (distance units)
cutoff (distance units):ul

The default mix value is *geometric*\ .
Only *arithmetic* and *geometric* mix values are supported.
See the "pair\_modify" command for details.

The A and H parameters are mixed using the same rules normally
used to mix the "epsilon" parameter in a Lennard Jones interaction.
The sigma\_h, r\_mh, and the cutoff distance are mixed using the same
rules used to mix the "sigma" parameter in a Lennard Jones interaction.
The B parameter is converted to a distance (sigma), before mixing
(using sigma=B\^-0.5), and converted back to a coefficient
afterwards (using B=sigma\^2).
Negative A values are converted to positive A values (using abs(A))
before mixing, and converted back after mixing
(by multiplying by min(sign(Ai),sign(Aj))).
This way, if either particle is repulsive (if Ai<0 or Aj<0),
then the default interaction between both particles will be repulsive.

The *gauss* style does not support the :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>`
shift option. There is no effect due to the Gaussian well beyond the
cutoff; hence reasonable cutoffs need to be specified.

The *gauss/cut* style supports the :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>` shift
option for the energy of the Gauss-potential portion of the pair
interaction.

The :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>` table and tail options are not
relevant for these pair styles.

These pair styles write their information to :doc:`binary restart files <restart>`, so pair\_style and pair\_coeff commands do not need
to be specified in an input script that reads a restart file.

These pair styles can only be used via the *pair* keyword of the
:doc:`run_style respa <run_style>` command.  They do not support the
*inner*\ , *middle*\ , *outer* keywords.

The *gauss* pair style tallies an "occupancy" count of how many Gaussian-well
sites have an atom within the distance at which the force is a maximum
= sqrt(0.5/b).  This quantity can be accessed via the :doc:`compute pair <compute_pair>` command as a vector of values of length 1.

To print this quantity to the log file (with a descriptive column
heading) the following commands could be included in an input script:


.. parsed-literal::

   compute gauss all pair gauss
   variable occ equal c_gauss[1]
   thermo_style custom step temp epair v_occ


----------


Restrictions
""""""""""""


The *gauss/cut* style is part of the "user-misc" package. It is only
enabled if LAMMPS is build with that package.  See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` doc page for more info.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>`,
:doc:`pair_style coul/diel <pair_coul_diel>`

**Default:** none

.. _Lenart2:



**(Lenart)** Lenart , Jusufi, and Panagiotopoulos, J Chem Phys, 126,
044509 (2007).

.. _Jusufi2:



**(Jusufi)** Jusufi, Hynninen, and Panagiotopoulos, J Phys Chem B, 112,
13783 (2008).

Commit message:

convert pair styles gauss to gromacs

doc/src/pair_gauss.rst, after:

.. index:: pair\_style gauss

pair\_style gauss command
=========================

pair\_style gauss/gpu command
=============================

pair\_style gauss/omp command
=============================

pair\_style gauss/cut command
=============================

pair\_style gauss/cut/omp command
=================================

Syntax
""""""


.. parsed-literal::

   pair_style gauss cutoff
   pair_style gauss/cut cutoff

* cutoff = global cutoff for Gauss interactions (distance units)

Examples
""""""""


.. parsed-literal::

   pair_style gauss 12.0
   pair_coeff \* \* 1.0 0.9
   pair_coeff 1 4 1.0 0.9 10.0

   pair_style gauss/cut 3.5
   pair_coeff 1 4 0.2805 1.45 0.112

Description
"""""""""""

Style *gauss* computes a tethering potential of the form

.. math::

   E = - A \exp(-B r^2) \qquad r < r_c


between an atom and its corresponding tether site which will typically
be a frozen atom in the simulation.  :math:`r_c` is the cutoff.

The following coefficients must be defined for each pair of atom types
via the :doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>` command as in the examples above,
or in the data file or restart files read by the
:doc:`read_data <read_data>` or :doc:`read_restart <read_restart>`
commands:

* A (energy units)
* B (1/distance\^2 units)
* cutoff (distance units)

The last coefficient is optional. If not specified, the global cutoff
is used.

Style *gauss/cut* computes a generalized Gaussian interaction potential
between pairs of particles:

.. math::

   E = \frac{H}{\sigma_h\sqrt{2\pi}} \exp\left[-\frac{(r-r_{mh})^2}{2\sigma_h^2}\right]


where H determines together with the standard deviation :math:`\sigma_h`
the peak height of the Gaussian function, and :math:`r_{mh}` the peak
position.  Examples of the use of the Gaussian potentials include
implicit solvent simulations of salt ions :ref:`(Lenart) <Lenart2>` and
of surfactants :ref:`(Jusufi) <Jusufi2>`.  In these instances the
Gaussian potential mimics the hydration barrier between a pair of
particles. The hydration barrier is located at :math:`r_{mh}` and has a
width of :math:`\sigma_h`. The prefactor determines the height of the
potential barrier.

The following coefficients must be defined for each pair of atom types
via the :doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>` command as in the example above,
or in the data file or restart files read by the
:doc:`read_data <read_data>` or :doc:`read_restart <read_restart>`
commands:

* H (energy \* distance units)
* :math:`r_{mh}` (distance units)
* :math:`\sigma_h` (distance units)
* cutoff (distance units)

The last coefficient is optional. If not specified, the global cutoff
is used.

----------

Styles with a *gpu*\ , *intel*\ , *kk*\ , *omp*\ , or *opt* suffix are
functionally the same as the corresponding style without the suffix.
They have been optimized to run faster, depending on your available
hardware, as discussed on the :doc:`Speed packages <Speed_packages>` doc
page.  The accelerated styles take the same arguments and should
produce the same results, except for round-off and precision issues.

These accelerated styles are part of the GPU, USER-INTEL, KOKKOS,
USER-OMP and OPT packages, respectively.  They are only enabled if
LAMMPS was built with those packages.  See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` doc page for more info.

You can specify the accelerated styles explicitly in your input script
by including their suffix, or you can use the :doc:`-suffix command-line switch <Run_options>` when you invoke LAMMPS, or you can use the
:doc:`suffix <suffix>` command in your input script.

See the :doc:`Speed packages <Speed_packages>` doc page for more
instructions on how to use the accelerated styles effectively.


----------


**Mixing, shift, table, tail correction, restart, rRESPA info**\ :

For atom type pairs I,J and I != J, the A, B, H, sigma\_h, r\_mh
parameters, and the cutoff distance for these pair styles can be mixed:
A (energy units)
sqrt(1/B) (distance units, see below)
H (energy units)
sigma\_h (distance units)
r\_mh (distance units)
cutoff (distance units):ul

The default mix value is *geometric*\ .
Only *arithmetic* and *geometric* mix values are supported.
See the "pair\_modify" command for details.

The A and H parameters are mixed using the same rules normally
used to mix the "epsilon" parameter in a Lennard Jones interaction.
The sigma\_h, r\_mh, and the cutoff distance are mixed using the same
rules used to mix the "sigma" parameter in a Lennard Jones interaction.
The B parameter is converted to a distance (sigma), before mixing
(using sigma=B\^-0.5), and converted back to a coefficient
afterwards (using B=sigma\^2).
Negative A values are converted to positive A values (using abs(A))
before mixing, and converted back after mixing
(by multiplying by min(sign(Ai),sign(Aj))).
This way, if either particle is repulsive (if Ai<0 or Aj<0),
then the default interaction between both particles will be repulsive.

The *gauss* style does not support the :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>`
shift option. There is no effect due to the Gaussian well beyond the
cutoff; hence reasonable cutoffs need to be specified.

The *gauss/cut* style supports the :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>` shift
option for the energy of the Gauss-potential portion of the pair
interaction.

The :doc:`pair_modify <pair_modify>` table and tail options are not
relevant for these pair styles.

These pair styles write their information to :doc:`binary restart files <restart>`, so pair\_style and pair\_coeff commands do not need
to be specified in an input script that reads a restart file.

These pair styles can only be used via the *pair* keyword of the
:doc:`run_style respa <run_style>` command.  They do not support the
*inner*\ , *middle*\ , *outer* keywords.

The *gauss* pair style tallies an "occupancy" count of how many Gaussian-well
sites have an atom within the distance at which the force is a maximum
= sqrt(0.5/b).  This quantity can be accessed via the :doc:`compute pair <compute_pair>` command as a vector of values of length 1.

To print this quantity to the log file (with a descriptive column
heading) the following commands could be included in an input script:


.. parsed-literal::

   compute gauss all pair gauss
   variable occ equal c_gauss[1]
   thermo_style custom step temp epair v_occ


----------


Restrictions
""""""""""""


The *gauss/cut* style is part of the "user-misc" package. It is only
enabled if LAMMPS is build with that package.  See the :doc:`Build package <Build_package>` doc page for more info.

Related commands
""""""""""""""""

:doc:`pair_coeff <pair_coeff>`,
:doc:`pair_style coul/diel <pair_coul_diel>`

**Default:** none

.. _Lenart2:



**(Lenart)** Lenart , Jusufi, and Panagiotopoulos, J Chem Phys, 126,
044509 (2007).

.. _Jusufi2:



**(Jusufi)** Jusufi, Hynninen, and Panagiotopoulos, J Phys Chem B, 112,
13783 (2008).
