doc/src/pg_python.rst, before:

LAMMPS Python APIs
******************

The lammps module
=================

The :py:mod:`lammps` module contains various functions, constants,
and the :py:class:`lammps <lammps.lammps>`,
:py:class:`PyLammps <lammps.PyLammps>`,
and :py:class:`IPyLammps <lammps.IPyLammps>` classes that form
the LAMMPS Python API.


.. py:module:: lammps
   :synopsis: Python wrapper for the LAMMPS library API via ctypes

.. py:data:: LAMMPS_INT, LAMMPS_DOUBLE, LAMMPS_BIGINT, LAMMPS_TAGINT, LAMMPS_STRING
   :type: int

   Constants in the :py:mod:`lammps` module to indicate how to
   cast data when the C library function returns a void pointer.
   Used in :py:func:`lammps.extract_global`.

----------

The lammps class
================

The :py:class:`lammps <lammps.lammps>` class is a wrapper around
the :doc:`LAMMPS C library API <pg_library>` using the Python ``ctypes`` module
and a shared library compiled from the LAMMPS sources code.
The individual methods in this class try to closely follow the
corresponding C functions.  The handle argument that needs to be
passed to the C functions is stored internally in the class and
automatically added when calling the C library functions.

----------

.. autoclass:: lammps.lammps
   :members:

----------

.. autoclass:: lammps.NeighList
   :members:
   :no-undoc-members:

----------

.. autoclass:: lammps.PyLammps
   :members:

----------

.. autoclass:: lammps.IPyLammps
   :members:

Commit message:

update documentation of LAMMPS python wrapper lammps class

doc/src/pg_python.rst, after:

LAMMPS Python APIs
******************

The lammps module
=================

The :py:mod:`lammps` module contains various functions, constants,
and the :py:class:`lammps <lammps.lammps>`,
:py:class:`PyLammps <lammps.PyLammps>`,
and :py:class:`IPyLammps <lammps.IPyLammps>` classes that form
the LAMMPS Python API.


.. py:module:: lammps
   :synopsis: Python wrapper for the LAMMPS library API via ctypes

.. py:data:: LAMMPS_INT, LAMMPS_DOUBLE, LAMMPS_BIGINT, LAMMPS_TAGINT, LAMMPS_STRING
   :type: int

   Constants in the :py:mod:`lammps` module to indicate how to
   cast data when the C library function returns a void pointer.
   Used in :py:func:`lammps.extract_global`.

----------

The lammps class
================

The :py:class:`lammps <lammps.lammps>` class is a wrapper around
the :doc:`LAMMPS C library API <pg_library>` using the Python ``ctypes`` module
and a shared library compiled from the LAMMPS sources code.
The individual methods in this class try to closely follow the
corresponding C functions.  The handle argument that needs to be
passed to the C functions is stored internally in the class and
automatically added when calling the C library functions.

----------

.. autoclass:: lammps.lammps
   :members:

----------

The NeighList class
===================

.. autoclass:: lammps.NeighList
   :members:
   :no-undoc-members:

----------

The PyLammps class
==================

.. autoclass:: lammps.PyLammps
   :members:

----------

The IPyLammps class
===================

.. autoclass:: lammps.IPyLammps
   :members:
